source/includes/list-tables/integration-configurations.rst, before:

.. list-table::
   :widths: 40 60
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Third-Party Service

     - Configuration Details

   * - :guilabel:`PagerDuty Service Key`

     - Sets a default service key for alert notifications sent to a
       `PagerDuty <http://www.pagerduty.com/?utm_source=mongodb&utm_medium=docs&utm_campaign=partner>`_
       account. |service| enters the key by default when you add a
       PagerDuty notification to an :doc:`alert configuration
       </monitoring-alerts>`. If you add PagerDuty notifications and if
       the key used to send the notifications becomes invalid,
       |service| sends an email to the project owner and eventually
       removes the key.

       You can add PagerDuty notifications only for alerts that require
       user acknowledgement. Informational alerts, such as the alert
       that a user has joined a project, cannot use this notification
       method.

       Users can acknowledge PagerDuty alerts only from the PagerDuty
       dashboard.

       .. include:: /includes/fact-pagerduty-api-key-decommission.rst

   * - :guilabel:`Flowdock Settings`

     - Sets default values for alert notifications sent to Flowdock.
       |service| enters the values by default when you add a Flowdock
       notification to an
       :doc:`alert configuration </monitoring-alerts>`. If you add
       Flowdock notifications, and if credentials to send notifications
       become invalid, |service| sends an email to the project owner
       and eventually removes the credentials.

       Set the following:

       .. list-table::
          :widths: 30 70

          * - :guilabel:`Org Name`
            - The Flowdock organization name in lower-case letters.
              This name appears after ``www.flowdock.com/app/`` in the
              |url| string.

          * - :guilabel:`Flow Name`
            - The flow name in lower-case letters. The flow name
              appears after the organization name in the |url| string:

              ``www.flowdock.com/app/``
              ``<organization-name>/<flow-name>``

          * - :guilabel:`API Token`
            - Your Flowdock "personal API token" found on the
              `Tokens page <https://www.flowdock.com/account/tokens>`__
              of your Flowdock account.

   * - :guilabel:`Slack Settings`

     - Sets a team name, |api| token and a channel name for
       alert notifications sent to a Slack account. To
       configure a Slack integration with OAuth2, click
       :guilabel:`Configure` and then :guilabel:`Sign in with Slack`.

       When you sign in, you are taken to a Slack landing page where
       you may select a workspace and configure permissions. After
       configuring Slack to connect to |service|, your |api| token is
       automatically generated and maintained. |service| redirects you
       back to the :guilabel:`Integrations page`.

       After initially configuring Slack with |service|, you can
       :guilabel:`Edit` or :guilabel:`Remove` the integration. When you
       edit the integration, |service| displays your team name and
       |api| token, and allow you to change your channel name.

       .. important:: Legacy Token Deprecation

          |service| deprecated legacy tokens. You can't configure a new Slack
          integration with legacy tokens. 
          
          You can continue to use legacy tokens if you used them to configure a
          Slack integration before |service| deprecated legacy tokens. However,
          you can't edit your legacy tokens. You must
          reconfigure your Slack integration with
          OAuth2 if you need to edit the token configuration.

   * - :guilabel:`Webhook Settings`

     - Adds a :guilabel:`Webhook URL` endpoint to which |service| can
       send alert notifications for programmatic processing. |service|
       sends an alert notification as an |http| POST request. The
       request body contains a |json| document that uses the same
       format as the {+atlas-admin-api+} ``Alerts`` resource.

       |service| adds a request header called ``X-MMS-Event`` to
       distinguish between various alert states. The possible values
       for this header are:

       .. list-table::
          :widths: 30 70

          * - ``alert.open``

            - The alert was just opened.

          * - ``alert.close``

            - The alert was resolved.

          * - ``alert.update``

            - A previously opened alert is still open.

          * - ``alert.acknowledge``

            - The alert was acknowledged.

          * - ``alert.cancel``

            - The alert became invalid and was canceled.

          * - ``alert.inform``

            - Represents an informational alert, which is a
              {+PIT-Restore+} event, such as "Primary Elected."

       If you specify a key in the :guilabel:`Webhook Secret` field,
       |service| adds the ``X-MMS-Signature`` request header. This
       header contains the Base64-encoded |hmac|-SHA-1 signature of the
       request body. |service| creates the signature using the provided
       secret.

       To send alert notifications to a Webhook, select the Webhook
       notification option when creating or editing an
       :doc:`alert </monitoring-alerts>`. If you add a Webhook
       notification and the |url| or optional key becomes invalid,
       |service| sends an email to the project owner and eventually
       removes the Webhook settings.

       .. important::

          If your firewall configuration requires it, allow access from
          :ref:`Atlas IP addresses <atlas-add-inbound-ips>` so that
          |service| can communicate with your webhook.

   * - :guilabel:`VictorOps Settings`

     - Sets an API key and Routing key for alert notifications sent to
       a Splunk On-Call (formerly VictorOps) account. |service| uses
       this information as the default settings when configuring
       alerts.

       - If you have a Splunk On-Call account, enter the following
         information:

         - `Splunk On-Call API Key <https://help.victorops.com/knowledge-base/api/>`__
         - `Splunk On-Call Routing Key <https://help.victorops.com/knowledge-base/routing-keys/>`__ (optional)

       - If you don't have a Splunk On-Call account,
         `sign up for one <https://www.splunk.com/en_us/download/on-call.html>`__.


   * - :guilabel:`OpsGenie API Key`

     - Sets an API key for alert notifications sent to an OpsGenie
       account. This will be used as the default OpsGenie API key when
       configuring alerts.

       - If you have an OpsGenie account, enter the following
         information:

         - OpsGenie integration API Key, which OpsGenie provides after you
           `create an API integration 
           <https://support.atlassian.com/opsgenie/docs/create-a-default-api-integration>`__
           under an OpsGenie team. You cannot use general OpsGenie account API
           keys for |service| integration.
         - API Region (United States or Europe)

       - If you don't have an OpsGenie account,
         `sign up for one <https://www.opsgenie.com/signup>`__.

   * - :guilabel:`New Relic Settings`

     - .. include:: /includes/fact-new-relic-deprecated.rst
      
       Configures |service| to send metric data about your deployment
       to `New Relic <http://newrelic.com/>`_ for viewing through the
       New Relic MongoDB plugin. You can also use Insights for New
       Relic to run analytics on the collected data. |service| sends
       New Relic the same metric data as displayed in |service|
       :doc:`cluster metrics </monitor-cluster-metrics>`.

       - If you have a New Relic account, enter the following
         information:

         - Account ID
         - License Key
         - Insights API Insert Key
         - Insights API Query Key

       - If you don't have a New Relic account,
         `sign up for one <https://newrelic.com/signup?via=login>`__.

       If any of the keys later become invalid, |service| sends an
       email to the project owner and eventually removes the invalid
       credentials.

   * - :guilabel:`Datadog Settings`

     - Configures |service| to send metric data about your deployment
       to |datadog|. You can view these metrics in your Datadog
       dashboards. To discover the detailed list of all |service|
       metrics that Datadog tracks, refer to the
       :ref:`Datadog Integration <datadog-integration>` page.

       - If you have a Datadog account, use Datadog begin tracking your
         |service| metric data.

       - If you do not have an existing Datadog account,
         `sign up for one <https://app.datadoghq.com/signup>`__.

       - Datadog API Key
       - API Region (United States or Europe)

   * - :guilabel:`SumoLogic Settings`

     - Connects you to the relevant SumoLogic documentation for
       configuring SumoLogic with |service|. You don't need to
       configure any settings within |service| to set up a SumoLogic
       integration.

   * - :guilabel:`Microsoft Teams Settings`

     - Configures |service| to send alerts about your deployment to 
       your `Microsoft Teams <https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-teams/group-chat-software/>`_  
       channel. You can view these notifications in the 
       `Adaptive Card <https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-teams/group-chat-software/>`_ 
       displayed in your channel.

       To send alert notifications to a Microsoft Teams channel,
       you must create a Microsoft Teams incoming webhook. 
       After creating the webhook, you can use the automatically
       generated URL to configure your Microsoft Teams integration.

       For detailed steps, see

Commit message:

Adds new integratio page w procedure and prereqs

source/includes/list-tables/integration-configurations.rst, after:

.. list-table::
   :widths: 40 60
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Third-Party Service

     - Configuration Details

   * - :guilabel:`PagerDuty Service Key`

     - Sets a default service key for alert notifications sent to a
       `PagerDuty <http://www.pagerduty.com/?utm_source=mongodb&utm_medium=docs&utm_campaign=partner>`_
       account. |service| enters the key by default when you add a
       PagerDuty notification to an :doc:`alert configuration
       </monitoring-alerts>`. If you add PagerDuty notifications and if
       the key used to send the notifications becomes invalid,
       |service| sends an email to the project owner and eventually
       removes the key.

       You can add PagerDuty notifications only for alerts that require
       user acknowledgement. Informational alerts, such as the alert
       that a user has joined a project, cannot use this notification
       method.

       Users can acknowledge PagerDuty alerts only from the PagerDuty
       dashboard.

       .. include:: /includes/fact-pagerduty-api-key-decommission.rst

   * - :guilabel:`Flowdock Settings`

     - Sets default values for alert notifications sent to Flowdock.
       |service| enters the values by default when you add a Flowdock
       notification to an
       :doc:`alert configuration </monitoring-alerts>`. If you add
       Flowdock notifications, and if credentials to send notifications
       become invalid, |service| sends an email to the project owner
       and eventually removes the credentials.

       Set the following:

       .. list-table::
          :widths: 30 70

          * - :guilabel:`Org Name`
            - The Flowdock organization name in lower-case letters.
              This name appears after ``www.flowdock.com/app/`` in the
              |url| string.

          * - :guilabel:`Flow Name`
            - The flow name in lower-case letters. The flow name
              appears after the organization name in the |url| string:

              ``www.flowdock.com/app/``
              ``<organization-name>/<flow-name>``

          * - :guilabel:`API Token`
            - Your Flowdock "personal API token" found on the
              `Tokens page <https://www.flowdock.com/account/tokens>`__
              of your Flowdock account.

   * - :guilabel:`Slack Settings`

     - Sets a team name, |api| token and a channel name for
       alert notifications sent to a Slack account. To
       configure a Slack integration with OAuth2, click
       :guilabel:`Configure` and then :guilabel:`Sign in with Slack`.

       When you sign in, you are taken to a Slack landing page where
       you may select a workspace and configure permissions. After
       configuring Slack to connect to |service|, your |api| token is
       automatically generated and maintained. |service| redirects you
       back to the :guilabel:`Integrations page`.

       After initially configuring Slack with |service|, you can
       :guilabel:`Edit` or :guilabel:`Remove` the integration. When you
       edit the integration, |service| displays your team name and
       |api| token, and allow you to change your channel name.

       .. important:: Legacy Token Deprecation

          |service| deprecated legacy tokens. You can't configure a new Slack
          integration with legacy tokens. 
          
          You can continue to use legacy tokens if you used them to configure a
          Slack integration before |service| deprecated legacy tokens. However,
          you can't edit your legacy tokens. You must
          reconfigure your Slack integration with
          OAuth2 if you need to edit the token configuration.

   * - :guilabel:`Webhook Settings`

     - Adds a :guilabel:`Webhook URL` endpoint to which |service| can
       send alert notifications for programmatic processing. |service|
       sends an alert notification as an |http| POST request. The
       request body contains a |json| document that uses the same
       format as the {+atlas-admin-api+} ``Alerts`` resource.

       |service| adds a request header called ``X-MMS-Event`` to
       distinguish between various alert states. The possible values
       for this header are:

       .. list-table::
          :widths: 30 70

          * - ``alert.open``

            - The alert was just opened.

          * - ``alert.close``

            - The alert was resolved.

          * - ``alert.update``

            - A previously opened alert is still open.

          * - ``alert.acknowledge``

            - The alert was acknowledged.

          * - ``alert.cancel``

            - The alert became invalid and was canceled.

          * - ``alert.inform``

            - Represents an informational alert, which is a
              {+PIT-Restore+} event, such as "Primary Elected."

       If you specify a key in the :guilabel:`Webhook Secret` field,
       |service| adds the ``X-MMS-Signature`` request header. This
       header contains the Base64-encoded |hmac|-SHA-1 signature of the
       request body. |service| creates the signature using the provided
       secret.

       To send alert notifications to a Webhook, select the Webhook
       notification option when creating or editing an
       :doc:`alert </monitoring-alerts>`. If you add a Webhook
       notification and the |url| or optional key becomes invalid,
       |service| sends an email to the project owner and eventually
       removes the Webhook settings.

       .. important::

          If your firewall configuration requires it, allow access from
          :ref:`Atlas IP addresses <atlas-add-inbound-ips>` so that
          |service| can communicate with your webhook.

   * - :guilabel:`VictorOps Settings`

     - Sets an API key and Routing key for alert notifications sent to
       a Splunk On-Call (formerly VictorOps) account. |service| uses
       this information as the default settings when configuring
       alerts.

       - If you have a Splunk On-Call account, enter the following
         information:

         - `Splunk On-Call API Key <https://help.victorops.com/knowledge-base/api/>`__
         - `Splunk On-Call Routing Key <https://help.victorops.com/knowledge-base/routing-keys/>`__ (optional)

       - If you don't have a Splunk On-Call account,
         `sign up for one <https://www.splunk.com/en_us/download/on-call.html>`__.


   * - :guilabel:`OpsGenie API Key`

     - Sets an API key for alert notifications sent to an OpsGenie
       account. This will be used as the default OpsGenie API key when
       configuring alerts.

       - If you have an OpsGenie account, enter the following
         information:

         - OpsGenie integration API Key, which OpsGenie provides after you
           `create an API integration 
           <https://support.atlassian.com/opsgenie/docs/create-a-default-api-integration>`__
           under an OpsGenie team. You cannot use general OpsGenie account API
           keys for |service| integration.
         - API Region (United States or Europe)

       - If you don't have an OpsGenie account,
         `sign up for one <https://www.opsgenie.com/signup>`__.

   * - :guilabel:`New Relic Settings`

     - .. include:: /includes/fact-new-relic-deprecated.rst
      
       Configures |service| to send metric data about your deployment
       to `New Relic <http://newrelic.com/>`_ for viewing through the
       New Relic MongoDB plugin. You can also use Insights for New
       Relic to run analytics on the collected data. |service| sends
       New Relic the same metric data as displayed in |service|
       :doc:`cluster metrics </monitor-cluster-metrics>`.

       - If you have a New Relic account, enter the following
         information:

         - Account ID
         - License Key
         - Insights API Insert Key
         - Insights API Query Key

       - If you don't have a New Relic account,
         `sign up for one <https://newrelic.com/signup?via=login>`__.

       If any of the keys later become invalid, |service| sends an
       email to the project owner and eventually removes the invalid
       credentials.

   * - :guilabel:`Datadog Settings`

     - Configures |service| to send metric data about your deployment
       to |datadog|. You can view these metrics in your Datadog
       dashboards. To discover the detailed list of all |service|
       metrics that Datadog tracks, refer to the
       :ref:`Datadog Integration <datadog-integration>` page.

       - If you have a Datadog account, use Datadog begin tracking your
         |service| metric data.

       - If you do not have an existing Datadog account,
         `sign up for one <https://app.datadoghq.com/signup>`__.

       - Datadog API Key
       - API Region (United States or Europe)

   * - :guilabel:`SumoLogic Settings`

     - Connects you to the relevant SumoLogic documentation for
       configuring SumoLogic with |service|. You don't need to
       configure any settings within |service| to set up a SumoLogic
       integration.

   * - :guilabel:`Microsoft Teams Settings`

     - Configures |service| to send alerts about your deployment to 
       your `Microsoft Teams <https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-teams/group-chat-software/>`_  
       channel. You can view these notifications in the 
       `Adaptive Card <https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-teams/group-chat-software/>`_ 
       displayed in your channel.

       To send alert notifications to a Microsoft Teams channel,
       you must create a Microsoft Teams incoming webhook. 
       After creating the webhook, you can use the automatically
       generated URL to configure your Microsoft Teams integration.

       For prerequisites and the setup procedure, see 
       :ref:`Integrate with Microsoft Teams <<integrate-with-microsoft-teams>>`.
