========
Security
========

.. default-domain:: mongodb

Overview
--------

.. only:: saas

   |MMS| provides configurable encryption, authentication, and
   authorization to ensure the security of your |MMS| agents and MongoDB
   deployments. |MMS| supports SSL, LDAP, Kerberos, and MONGODB-CR.

.. only:: hosted

   |MMS| provides configurable encryption, authentication, and
   authorization to ensure the security of your |MMS| agents, |MMS|
   deployments, and MongoDB deployments. |MMS| supports SSL, LDAP,
   Kerberos, and MONGODB-CR.

Encryption
~~~~~~~~~~

|MMS| uses SSL for encrypting communications for the following
Monitoring Agent and Backup Agent connections:

- Connections to MongoDB instances

- Connections to |MMS| servers

See :doc:`/core/ssl` for more information about SSL in |mms|, and
:manual:`Configure SSL with MongoDB </tutorial/configure-ssl>` for
documentation

Authentication
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Authentication verifies an agent's identity to a MongoDB
deployment. |MMS| supports multiple :manual:`authentication mechanisms
</core/authentication>`, including ``LDAP`` and ``MONGODB-CR``, the
MongoDB default mechanism.

Authorization
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

|mms| provides roles to control access to resources and operations. Roles
determine an agent's or user's access to |mms| resources and operations.
See :ref:`assigning-roles-to-users` and
:doc:`/references/authentication`.

SSL
---

SSL encrypts the connections made by Monitoring Agents and Backup Agents
to both MongoDB instances and to |MMS| servers. SSL encryption ensures
communications are readable only by the intended parties.

.. only:: saas

   Agents always use SSL when communicating with the |MMS| servers. You
   can also apply SSL to agent communications with your MongoDB
   deployments.

.. only:: hosted

   Both the Monitoring Agent and the Backup Agent can use SSL. You can
   apply SSL to their communications with the MongoDB deployment and,
   separately, to their communications with the |MMS| servers.

To implement SSL on your agent connections, please see :doc:`/core/ssl`.

LDAP Authentication
-------------------

.. only:: saas

   |mms| agents can use the LDAP authentication mechanism to
   authenticate to the MongoDB deployment.

.. only:: hosted

   |mms| agents can use the LDAP authentication mechanism to connect
   to the MongoDB deployment. Additionally, and independently, the
   |mms| Application Server can use LDAP authentication to its Backing
   MongoDB instances.

   To configure LDAP authentication between the |mms| application and
   the backing MongoDB instances see
   :doc:`/tutorial/configure-for-ldap-authentication`.

To configure LDAP authentication between the Agents the MongoDB
deployment see:
:doc:`/tutorial/connect-to-hosts-with-ldap-authentication` and
:doc:`/tutorial/backup-deployments-with-auth`.

MONGODB-CR
----------

.. only:: saas

   |MMS| can use the ``MONGODB-CR`` authentication mechanism to
   authenticate to a MongoDB deployment. See
   :doc:`/tutorial/backup-deployments-with-auth` and
   :doc:`/reference/authentication` for more information.

.. only:: hosted

   The |mms| Application can also use ``MONGODB-CR`` to authenticate
   to the backing MongoDB instances. See :setting:`mongo.mongoUri` for
   more information.

Kerberos
--------

|mms| agents can use the Kerberos authentication mechanism to
authenticate to MongoDB deployments.

To activate Kerberos authentication, you must select an authentication
mechanism and provide the credentials. You select the Kerberos
authentication mechanism when you add a host or activate backup, or at
any time after monitoring and backup are active.

See :doc:`/tutorial/connect-to-hosts-with-kerberos-authentication`

Two-Factor Authentication
-------------------------

To active and manage two-factor authentication, which users and
administrators use to authenticate to the MMS interface see:
:doc:`/core/two-factor-authentication` and
:doc:`/tutorial/manage-two-factor-authentication`.
