.. _tag-aware-sharding:

==================
Tag Aware Sharding
==================

.. default-domain:: mongodb

MongoDB supports tagging a range of :term:`shard key` values to
associate that range with a shard or group of shards. Those shards
receive all inserts within the tagged range.

The balancer obeys tagged range associations, which enables the
following deployment patterns:

- isolate a specific subset of data on a specific set of shards.

- ensure that the most relevant data reside on shards that are
  geographically closest to the application servers.

This document describes the behavior, operation, and use of tag aware
sharding in MongoDB deployments.

Considerations
--------------

- :term:`Shard key` range tags are distinct from :ref:`replica set
  member tags <replica-set-read-preference-tag-sets>`.

- :term:`Hash-based sharding <hashed shard key>` does not support
  tag-aware sharding.

- .. includes:: /includes/fact-shard-ranges-inclusive-exclusive.rst 

.. _shards-tag-sets:

Behavior and Operations
-----------------------

The balancer migrates chunks of documents in a sharded collections to
the shards associated with a tag that has a :term:`shard key` range
with an *upper* bound *greater* than the chunk's *lower* bound.

During balancing rounds, if the balancer detects that any chunks
violate configured tags, the balancer migrates chunks in tagged ranges
to shards associated with those tags.

After configuring tags with a shard key range, and associating it with
a shard or shards, the cluster may take some time to balance the data
among the shards. This depends on the division of chunks and the
current distribution of data in the cluster.

Once configured, the balancer respects tag ranges during future
:ref:`balancing rounds <sharding-internals-balancing>`.

.. seealso::

   :doc:`/tutorial/administer-shard-tags`

Chunks that Span Multiple Tag Ranges
------------------------------------

A single chunk may contain data with a :term:`shard key` values that
falls into ranges associated with more than one tag. To accommodate
these situations, the balancer may migrate chunks to shards that
contain shard key values that exceed the upper bound of the selected
tag range.

.. example::

   Given a sharded collection with two configured tag ranges:

   - :term:`Shard key` values between ``100`` and ``200`` have tags to
     direct corresponding chunks to shards tagged ``NYC``.

   - Shard key values between ``200`` and ``300`` have tags to
     direct corresponding chunks to shards tagged ``SFO``.

   For this collection cluster, the balancer will migrate a chunk with :term:`shard
   key` values ranging between ``150`` and ``220`` to a shard tagged
   ``NYC``, since ``150`` is closer to ``200`` than ``300``.

To ensure that your collection has no potentially ambiguously tagged
chunks, :doc:`create splits on your tag boundaries
</tutorial/split-chunks-in-sharded-cluster>`. You can then manually
migrate chunks to the appropriate shards, or wait for the balancer to
automatically migrate these chunks.
