README.rst, before:

=============================
MongoDB Mongoid Documentation
=============================

This repository contains the files to handle the build and publication of the Mongoid documentation.  The actual Mongoid documentation files are located in the mongoid repo. 

Build Locally
-------------

To build the documentation locally, 

- Install `giza <https://pypi.python.org/pypi/giza/>`_, if not already
  installed. There is an `installation guide 
  <https://docs.mongodb.com/meta/tutorials/install/>`_ on the MongoDB meta site
  to help you get started.

- Run the following to download and build this documentation locally::

     git clone git@github.com:mongodb/docs-mongoid
     cd docs-mongoid/
     make html

The generated HTML will be placed in `build/master/html/`.

*Note*: The build process invokes Sphinx and expects Sphinx's various
binaries to be in PATH.

Contribute
----------

To contribute to the documentation, please sign the `MongoDB
Contributor Agreement
<https://www.mongodb.com/legal/contributor-agreement>`_ if you have not
already.

See the following documents that provide an overview of the
documentation style and process:

- `Style Guide <http://docs.mongodb.org/manual/meta/style-guide>`_
- `Documentation Practices <http://docs.mongodb.org/manual/meta/practices>`_
- `Documentation Organization <http://docs.mongodb.org/manual/meta/organization>`_
- `Build Instructions <http://docs.mongodb.org/manual/meta/build>`_

File JIRA Tickets
-----------------

File issue reports or requests at the `Documentation Jira Project
<https://jira.mongodb.org/browse/DOCS>`_.

Listed Mongoid Branches
-----------------------

The branch list as well as which is the current one is maintained here: https://github.com/mongodb/docs-tools/blob/master/data/mongoid-published-branches.yaml

Licenses
--------

All documentation is available under the terms of a `Creative Commons
License <http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/3.0/>`_.

The MongoDB Documentation Project is governed by the terms of the
`MongoDB Contributor Agreement
<https://www.mongodb.com/legal/contributor-agreement>`_.

-- The MongoDB Docs Team

Commit message:

Document staging (#2)
Co-authored-by: Oleg Pudeyev <oleg@bsdpower.com>

README.rst, after:

=============================
MongoDB Mongoid Documentation
=============================

This repository contains the files to handle the build and publication of the Mongoid documentation.  The actual Mongoid documentation files are located in the mongoid repo. 

Build Locally
-------------

To build the documentation locally, 

- Install `giza <https://pypi.python.org/pypi/giza/>`_, if not already
  installed. There is an `installation guide 
  <https://docs.mongodb.com/meta/tutorials/install/>`_ on the MongoDB meta site
  to help you get started.

- Run the following to download and build this documentation locally::

     git clone git@github.com:mongodb/docs-mongoid
     cd docs-mongoid/
     make html

The generated HTML will be placed in `build/master/html/`.

*Note*: The build process invokes Sphinx and expects Sphinx's various
binaries to be in PATH.

Stage
-----

Install [mut](https://github.com/mongodb/mut) following its installation
instructions.

Request access to the documentation staging bucket. Obtain AWS S3
access key id and secret access key.

Create ``~/.config/giza-aws-authentication.conf`` with the following contents::

    [authentication]
    accesskey=<AWS access key>
    secretkey=<AWS secret key>

(If you run ``make stage`` without configuring authentication, it will
also give you these instructions.)

Finally to publish the docs to the staging bucket, run::

    make stage

The output will include a URL to the published documentation.

Contribute
----------

Documentation sources for Mongoid are in Mongoid's primary repository:
https://github.com/mongodb/mongoid/tree/master/docs/tutorials.
This repository contains documentation build tooling only.

To contribute to the documentation, please sign the `MongoDB
Contributor Agreement
<https://www.mongodb.com/legal/contributor-agreement>`_ if you have not
already.

See the following documents that provide an overview of the
documentation style and process:

- `Style Guide <http://docs.mongodb.org/manual/meta/style-guide>`_
- `Documentation Practices <http://docs.mongodb.org/manual/meta/practices>`_
- `Documentation Organization <http://docs.mongodb.org/manual/meta/organization>`_
- `Build Instructions <http://docs.mongodb.org/manual/meta/build>`_

File JIRA Tickets
-----------------

File issue reports or requests at the `Documentation Jira Project
<https://jira.mongodb.org/browse/DOCS>`_.

Listed Mongoid Branches
-----------------------

The branch list as well as which is the current one is maintained here: https://github.com/mongodb/docs-tools/blob/master/data/mongoid-published-branches.yaml

Licenses
--------

All documentation is available under the terms of a `Creative Commons
License <http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/3.0/>`_.

The MongoDB Documentation Project is governed by the terms of the
`MongoDB Contributor Agreement
<https://www.mongodb.com/legal/contributor-agreement>`_.

-- The MongoDB Docs Team
