.. _fts20211210:

10 December 2021 Release
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Adds support for :ref:`Gaussian decay expressions <function-score-expression>`, which decay, or reduce, :doc:`document scores </atlas-search/scoring>`
  by multiplying at a specified rate.

.. _fts20211103:

03 November 2021 Release
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Adds :ref:`asciiFolding-tf-ref` token filter for 
  converting alphabetic, numeric, and symbolic unicode characters that 
  are not in the `Basic Latin Unicode block 
  <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Basic_Latin_(Unicode_block)>`__ to 
  their ASCII equivalents.

.. _fts20210928:

28 September 2021 Release
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

:ref:`Autocomplete <bson-data-types-autocomplete>` improvements in this 
release:

- Adds support for :ref:`analyzers <analyzers-ref>` in the index 
  definition for :ref:`bson-data-types-autocomplete`.
- Boosts exact matches in :ref:`autocomplete <autocomplete-ref>` 
  operator.
- Adds ``rightEdgeGram`` :ref:`tokenization 
  <bson-data-types-autocomplete>` strategy to create 
  ``edgeGram``-like tokens starting at the right side of words (instead 
  of the left side).

Bug fixes in this release:

- Fixes ``objectId`` highlighting error.

.. _fts20210907: 

07 Septermber 2021 Release
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Allows indexes to enter a recovering state and remain available after encountering certain 
  replication errors.

.. _fts20210713: 

13 July 2021 Release
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Adds support for :ref:`synonyms <synonyms-ref>`, which can be defined 
  in a source collection and mapped to search indexes via the |service| 
  |api|.

.. _fts20210601: 

01 June 2021 Release
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Supports :ref:`wildcard path <ref-path-usage>` for 
  :ref:`highlight-ref`.

.. _fts20210405: 

05 April 2021 Release
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Adds :ref:`stopword <stopword-tf-ref>` token filter for removing 
  tokens that match the specified stop words. 

.. _fts20210319: 

19 March 2021 Release
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Adds additional :ref:`language analyzers <ref-language-analyzers>`, 
  :ref:`token filters <token-filters-ref>`, and :ref:`tokenizers 
  <tokenizers-ref>`.
- Adds support for :ref:`function scores <scoring-function>`, which 
  allows you to alter the relevance score of a document using a numeric 
  field in the same document.

.. _fts20210205:

05 February 2021 Release 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Supports :ref:`explain <explain-ref>` for ``$search`` queries. 

.. _fts20210116:

16 January 2021 Release
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Fixes an issue with :ref:`highlighting <highlight-ref>` raising errors
  when combined with ObjectID equality operators.

.. _fts20210114:

14 January 2021 Release
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Improves performance of initial sync indexing.
