.. _fts20201215:

15 December 2020 Release
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Adds ``maxNumPassages`` and ``maxCharsToExamine`` for
  :ref:`highlight-ref`.

.. _fts20201119:

19 November 2020 Release
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Improves performance of steady state indexing.

.. _fts_20201113:

13 November 2020 Release
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Fixes a bug in :ref:`custom analyzers <custom-analyzers>` where only
  the first ``charMap`` :ref:`character filter <character-filters>` was
  being executed.

.. _fts_20201001:

1 October 2020 Release
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Removes downtime requirement when rebuilding modified index
  definitions.

.. _fts_20200902:

2 September 2020 Release
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Adds :ref:`custom analyzers <custom-analyzers>` for index
  definitions and search queries.

.. _fts_20200824:

23 August 2020 Release
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Adds support for :ref:`wildcard path <ref-path-usage>`.

.. _fts_20200609:

9 June 2020 Release
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Releases :ref:`Atlas Search <fts-top-ref>` to general availability.

- Adds support for data types :ref:`boolean <boolean-ref>` and
  :ref:`objectId <objectId-ref>`.

.. _fts_20200430:

18 May 2020 Release
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Adds a new :ref:`index option <bson-data-types-string>` to exclude
  the ``norms`` field, allowing a search index to ignore field length
  when scoring search results.

- Adds the :ref:`tokenOrder option <autocomplete-ref-options>` to the
  :ref:`autocomplete operator <autocomplete-ref>`, supporting unordered
  terms in search queries.

- Improves error messages to facilitate query debugging, including
  eliminating stack traces and other Java-specific messages.

30 April 2020 Release
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Adds support for geospatial queries, including:

  - A new :ref:`geo <bson-data-types-geo>` data type for indexing
    geographic point and shape coordinates.

  - Two new operators, :ref:`geoWithin <geowithin-ref>` and
    :ref:`geoShape <geoshape-ref>`, to support queries on geospatial
    data, such as points and polygons.

- Adds autocomplete features to support better search-as-you-type
  functionality, including:

  - A new :ref:`autocomplete operator <autocomplete-ref>` and
    :ref:`index type <bson-data-types-autocomplete>`.
  - Analyzer-agnostic diacritic folding of field values.
  - Scoring options, such as boost and constant.
  - Compound queries that combine autocomplete with other $search
    operators.
  - n-grams/shingles and edge n-grams from analyzed text.
