.. _fts20240628:

28 June 2024 Release
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Upgrades to Java 21.

  .. include:: /includes/fact-fts-avs-java-21-upgrade.rst

  This upgrade provides the following benefits: 

  - Indexes number and date values by default for sorting.
  - Indexes null and UUID values automatically if you enable dynamic
    mappings, which might increase the size of your index.

.. _fts20240625:

25 June 2024 Release
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Makes :ref:`Search Nodes <configure-search-nodes>` on |azure|
  generally available for both your development and production 
  deployments.
- Introduces :ref:`Search Nodes <configure-search-nodes>` support for 
  :ref:`multi-region <fts-cloud-provider-regions>` and :ref:`multi-cloud
  <fts-cloud-providers>` {+clusters+} as a Preview feature. 

.. _fts20240531:

31 May 2024 Release
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Introduces |fts| :guilabel:`Query Templates` in the :guilabel:`Search
  Tester`, which makes querying easier with pre-written
  :pipeline:`$search` queries including conditional clauses like
  ``must`` and ``should``, ``autocomplete`` for search-as-you-type
  experiences, faceting, and more. To learn more, see
  :ref:`atlas-search-queries`. 

- Introduces changes to the |fts| |api| endpoints. To learn more, see
  :atlas:`API Changelog for May 31 2024 Release
  </reference/api-resources-spec/changelog/>`. 

.. _fts20240510:

10 May 2024 Release
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Truncates large :ref:`stringFacet <bson-data-types-string-facet>`
  values. 

.. _fts20240507:

07 May 2024 Release
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Fixes an issue where |fts| didn't include the ``_id`` field for some 
  documents in the results when using ``returnStoredSource``.  

.. _fts20240423:

23 April 2024 Release
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Fixes an issue where |fts| triggered spurious initial syncs 
  after certain |mongod| configuration changes.
- Rebuilds indexes where the definition version is missing.

.. _fts20240328:

28 March 2024 Release
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Fixes an issue where |fts| didn't generate results for 
  ``searchAfter`` or ``searchBefore`` queries when scores were tied.
- Adds the ability to query and sort by null and :ref:`UUID
  <bson-data-types-uuid>` values.

.. _fts20240305:

05 March 2024 Release
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Re-enables :ref:`sort <sort-ref>` pruning.
- Includes synonym queries in :ref:`explain() <explain-ref>`.

.. _fts20240301:

01 March 2024 Release
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Fixes an issue where sharded |service| {+clusters+}
  running MongoDB v7.2.0 would return an error for 
  :pipeline:`$searchMeta` stages that contain the 
  ``facet`` collector.

.. _fts20240214:

14 February 2024 Release
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Supports running :pipeline:`$searchMeta` queries in the
  :guilabel:`Search Tester`. To learn more, see
  :ref:`atlas-search-queries`. 

.. _fts20240117:

17 January 2024 Release
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Supports retrieving :pipeline:`$search` results sequentially after or
  before a reference point, which you can specify using a token
  generated by the :expression:`$meta` keyword ``searchSequenceToken``.
  To learn more, see :ref:`fts-paginate-results`. 
