.. _fts20221102:

02 November 2022 Release
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Supports statically indexing arrays of strings as the 
  :ref:`autocomplete <bson-data-types-autocomplete>` type and querying
  the indexed field using the :ref:`autocomplete-ref` operator. 
- Supports dynamically and statically indexing
  :ref:`numbers <bson-data-types-number>` in arrays and querying the
  indexed :ref:`numbers <bson-data-types-number>` in arrays using the
  :ref:`range-ref` operator only. 
- Supports dynamically and statically indexing
  :ref:`dates <bson-data-types-date>` in  arrays and querying the indexed
  :ref:`dates <bson-data-types-date>` in arrays using the :ref:`range-ref`
  operator only. 
- Supports dynamically and statically indexing :ref:`objectIds
  <objectId-ref>` and arrays of :ref:`objectIds <objectId-ref>` and
  querying the indexed :ref:`objectIds <objectId-ref>` using the
  :ref:`equals-ref` operator.  
- Supports dynamically and statically indexing :ref:`booleans
  <boolean-ref>` and arrays of :ref:`booleans <boolean-ref>` and
  querying the :ref:`booleans <boolean-ref>` using the :ref:`equals-ref`
  operator. 

.. _fts20221003:

03 October 2022 Release
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Improves performance for :ref:`storedSource 
  <fts-stored-source-definition>`.

.. _fts20220725:

02 August 2022 Release
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Upgrades to |fts|, which include the following: 

  - Querying improvements

    - Supports ``\w``, ``\W``, ``\D``, ``\s``, and ``\S`` regular 
      expressions in the regex query. However, |fts| doesn't return 
      results for characters other than ``s``, ``S``, ``w``, ``W``, 
      ``d``, and ``D`` in the regex query. We recommend using 
      backslashes according to `regex standards <https://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/api/java/util/regex/Pattern.html#bs>`__.

    - Updates to :ref:`email tokenizer <uaxUrlEmail-tokenizer-ref>`  
      top-level domains from the `IANA 
      <https://www.iana.org/domains/root/db>`__ Root Zone Database.

  - Highlighting improvements

    - Passage selector truncates long snippets to show a shorter 
      snippet, which fixes the cause for queries failing when the 
      passage is long.

  - Explain output for some queries might look different. If you use 
    :ref:`explain <explain-ref>`, verify that the changes don't break 
    logic in your environment.

  In addition to the preceding list of changes, you might notice some 
  indexing and querying performance changes. 

- Introduces :ref:`more-like-this-ref` operator to retrieve documents 
  similar to one or more input documents.

.. _fts20220706:

07 June 2022 Release
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Supports the :ref:`facet <fts-facet-ref>` collector on sharded
  clusters running MongoDB 6.0 and later.
- Supports :pipeline:`$search` and :pipeline:`$searchMeta` stages 
  inside :pipeline:`$lookup` and :pipeline:`$unionWith` sub-pipeline.

.. _fts20220106:

01 June 2022 Release
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Introduces :ref:`embedded documents <embedded-document-ref>` for
  :manual:`$elemMatch </reference/operator/query/elemMatch/>`-like searches.

  .. note:: 

     .. include:: /includes/fact-embedded-document-preview.rst

.. _fts20220427:

27 April 2022 Release
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Improves performance of :ref:`stored source fields 
  <fts-stored-source-definition>` for faster post-aggregation stages.
- Improves precision of :ref:`replication lag metrics 
  <review-atlas-search-metrics>` reporting.

.. _fts20220419:

19 April 2022 Release
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Optimizes internal batching to improve stored source query 
  performance when your query matches a large number of documents
  (5,000 or more).

.. _fts20220331:

31 March 2022 Release
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Introduces an option in the :ref:`index definition 
  <ref-index-definitions>`  for :ref:`storing fields 
  <fts-stored-source-definition>` on |fts| and :pipeline:`$search` 
  option for :ref:`returning stored fields 
  <fts-return-stored-source-option>`.

.. _fts20220309:

09 March 2022 Release
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Introduces a new :authrole:`Project Search Index Editor` role to create, view, edit,
  and delete |fts| indexes using the |service| UI or API.
- Serves queries using your last valid index if new index definition is invalid.
- Removes :ref:`Lucene's default clause limit <atlas-fts-shared-tier-limitations>` of ``1024`` for ``BooleanQuery`` on dedicated clusters.

  .. note::

     .. include:: /includes/fts/facts/fact-fts-facet-data-type-deprecation.rst

.. _fts20220301:

01 March 2022 Release
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Adds the :ref:`numberFacet <bson-data-types-number-facet>` and 
  :ref:`dateFacet <bson-data-types-date-facet>` data types for running
  facet queries on number and date fields respectively.

  .. note::

     .. include:: /includes/fts/facts/fact-fts-facet-data-type-deprecation.rst
 
.. _fts20220126:

26 January 2022 Release
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Adds :ref:`reverse <reverse-tf-ref>` token filter, which reverses 
  each string token.
