.. _fts20230731:

31 July 2023 Release
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Starts :ref:`initial sync <troubleshoot-initial-sync>` automatically
  in certain scenarios with sharding. 
- Fixes a bug that caused changes to :ref:`token
  <bson-data-types-token>` field mapping to be ignored.


.. _fts20230710:

10 July 2023 Release
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Adds the :ref:`sort <sort-ref>` option, which supports 
  sorting in ascending or descending order on fields that you 
  define in your |fts| index for sorting. 

  .. note:: 

     |fts| :ref:`sort <sort-ref>` option is available in sharded
     {+clusters+} only if you run MongoDB v6.0+.

- Limits the :ref:`knnBeta <knn-beta-limitation>` operator as 
  a top-level operator.
- Introduces the ability to perform text, wildcard, regular 
  expression, fuzzy, and range searches on ``string`` fields 
  by using the :ref:`queryString <querystring-ref>` operator.  
- Improves performance of :pipeline:`$search` with :pipeline:`$limit`. 
- For |service| {+clusters+} running MongoDB 7.0 :abbr:`RC (Release
  Candidate)`, introduces ability to create and manage |fts| indexes
  from :binary:`~bin.mongosh` and :driver:`NodeJS </node>` driver. 

.. _fts20230614:

14 June 2023 Release
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Adds support for restoring |fts| indexes from {+Cloud-Backup+} snapshots
  of M10 or larger {+clusters+}.

.. _fts20230607:

07 June 2023 Release
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Supports :ref:`tracking <fts-tracking-ref>` search terms in queries
  and viewing :ref:`query analytics <fts-query-analytics>` for tracked
  search terms in the {+atlas-ui+} for ``M10`` or higher |service|
  {+clusters+}. 

.. _fts20230526:

26 May 2023 Release
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Adds the :ref:`in <in-ref>` operator, which performs a
  search for an array of values and returns documents where the value of
  the field equals any value in the specified array. 
- Changes the ``operator`` option of the :ref:`facet <fts-facet-ref>`
  collector to be optional. ``facet`` queries that you specify
  without an :ref:`operator <operators-ref>` run over all indexed
  documents. 

.. _fts20230425:

25 April 2023 Release
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Adds ``scoreDetails`` boolean option to :ref:`retrieve a detailed
  breakdown of the score <fts-score-details>` for each document in the
  query results. 

.. _fts20230301:

01 March 2023 Release
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Introduces the ability to edit your |fts| query in the :ref:`Search
  Tester <fts-edit-query-syntax-ui>`.

.. _fts20230131:

31 January 2023 Release
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Adds the following :ref:`language analyzers <ref-language-analyzers>`:

  - ``lucene.polish``
  - ``lucene.portuguese``
  - ``lucene.smartcn``
  - ``lucene.sorani``
  - ``lucene.thai``
  - ``lucene.turkish``

- Adds the following :ref:`token filters <token-filters-ref>`:
  
  - :ref:`englishPossessive-tf-ref`
  - :ref:`flattenGraph-tf-ref`
  - :ref:`kStemming-tf-ref`
  - :ref:`porterStemming-tf-ref`
  - :ref:`spanishPluralStemming-tf-ref`
  - :ref:`stempel-tf-ref`
  - :ref:`wordDelimiterGraph-tf-ref`

- Supports the :ref:`number data type <bson-data-types-number>` using
  the :ref:`equals-ref` operator.
- Supports :ref:`synonyms <synonyms-ref>` for sharded clusters.

.. _fts20230125:

25 January 2023 Release
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Supports the :ref:`embeddedDocuments <bson-data-types-embedded-documents>`
  type in the |fts| visual editor configuration mode in the {+atlas-ui+}.
