+++
title = "Upgrade User Authorization Data to 2.6 Format"

[tags]
mongodb = "product"
+++
# Upgrade User Authorization Data to 2.6 Format


# On this page

* [Considerations](#considerations) 

* [Requirements](#requirements) 

* [Procedure](#procedure) 

* [Result](#result) 

MongoDB 2.6 includes significant changes to the authorization model,
which requires changes to the way that MongoDB stores users'
credentials. As a result, in addition to upgrading MongoDB processes,
if your deployment uses authentication and authorization, after
upgrading all MongoDB process to 2.6 you **must** also upgrade the
authorization model.


## Considerations


### Complete all other Upgrade Requirements

Before upgrading the authorization model, you should first upgrade
MongoDB binaries to 2.6. For sharded clusters, ensure that **all**
cluster components are 2.6. If there are users in any database, be sure
you have at least one user in the ``admin`` database with the role
[``userAdminAnyDatabase``](#userAdminAnyDatabase) **before** upgrading the MongoDB
binaries.


### Timing

Because downgrades are more difficult after you upgrade the user
authorization model, once you upgrade the MongoDB binaries to
version 2.6, allow your MongoDB deployment to run a day or two
**without** upgrading the user authorization model.

This allows 2.6 some time to "burn in" and decreases the likelihood
of downgrades occurring after the user privilege model upgrade. The
user authentication and access control will continue to work as
it did in 2.4, **but** it will be impossible to create or modify
users or to use user-defined roles until you run the authorization
upgrade.

If you decide to upgrade the user authorization
model immediately instead of waiting the recommended "burn in"
period, then for sharded clusters, you must wait at least 10 seconds
after upgrading the sharded clusters to run the authorization
upgrade script.


### Replica Sets

For a replica set, it is only necessary to run the upgrade process on
the [*primary*](#term-primary) as the changes will automatically replicate to
the secondaries.


### Sharded Clusters

For a sharded cluster, connect to a [``mongos``](#bin.mongos) and run the
upgrade procedure to upgrade the cluster's authorization data. By
default, the procedure will upgrade the authorization data of the
shards as well.

To override this behavior, run the upgrade command with the
additional parameter ``upgradeShards: false``. If you choose to
override, you must run the upgrade procedure on the [``mongos``](#bin.mongos)
first, and then run the procedure on the [*primary*](#term-primary) members of
each shard.

For a sharded cluster, do **not** run the upgrade process directly
against the [config servers](#). Instead, perform the upgrade
process using one [``mongos``](#bin.mongos) instance to interact with the
config database.


## Requirements

To upgrade the authorization model, you must have a user in the
``admin`` database with the role [``userAdminAnyDatabase``](#userAdminAnyDatabase).


## Procedure


### Step 1: Connect to MongoDB instance.

Connect and authenticate to the [``mongod``](#bin.mongod) instance for a
single deployment or a [``mongos``](#bin.mongos) for a sharded cluster as an
``admin`` database user with the role
[``userAdminAnyDatabase``](#userAdminAnyDatabase).


### Step 2: Upgrade authorization schema.

Use the [``authSchemaUpgrade``](#dbcmd.authSchemaUpgrade) command in the ``admin``
database to update the user data using the [``mongo``](#bin.mongo) shell.


#### Run ``authSchemaUpgrade`` command.

```javascript

db.getSiblingDB("admin").runCommand({authSchemaUpgrade: 1 });

```

In case of error, you may safely rerun the
[``authSchemaUpgrade``](#dbcmd.authSchemaUpgrade) command.


#### Sharded cluster ``authSchemaUpgrade`` consideration.

For a sharded cluster, [``authSchemaUpgrade``](#dbcmd.authSchemaUpgrade) will
upgrade the authorization data of the shards as well and the
upgrade is complete. You can,  however, override this behavior by
including ``upgradeShards: false`` in the command, as in the
following example:

```javascript

db.getSiblingDB("admin").runCommand({authSchemaUpgrade: 1,
upgradeShards: false });

```

If you override the behavior, after running
[``authSchemaUpgrade``](#dbcmd.authSchemaUpgrade) on a [``mongos``](#bin.mongos) instance,
you will need to connect to the primary for each shard and
repeat the upgrade process after upgrading on the
[``mongos``](#bin.mongos).


## Result

All users in a 2.6 system are stored in the [``admin.system.users``](#admin.system.users)
collection. To manipulate these users, use the [user management
methods](#).

The upgrade procedure copies the version 2.4 ``admin.system.users``
collection to ``admin.system.backup_users``.

The upgrade procedure leaves the version 2.4
``<database>.system.users`` collection(s) intact.
