+++
title = "Upgrade MongoDB to 2.6"

[tags]
mongodb = "product"
+++

In the general case, the upgrade from MongoDB 2.4 to 2.6 is a
binary-compatible "drop-in" upgrade: shut down the [``mongod``](#bin.mongod)
instances and replace them with [``mongod``](#bin.mongod) instances running
2.6. **However**, before you attempt any upgrade, familiarize yourself
with the content of this document, particularly the
[Upgrade Recommendations and Checklists](#upgrade-considerations), the procedure for [upgrading
sharded clusters](#upgrade-cluster), and the considerations for
[reverting to 2.4 after running 2.6](#downgrade-considerations).


## Upgrade Recommendations and Checklists

When upgrading, consider the following:


### Upgrade Requirements

To upgrade an existing MongoDB deployment to 2.6, you must be running
2.4. If you're running a version of MongoDB before 2.4, you *must*
upgrade to 2.4 before upgrading to 2.6. See
[Upgrade MongoDB to 2.4](#) for the procedure to upgrade from
2.2 to 2.4.

If you use [MongoDB Cloud Manager](https://www.mongodb.com/cloud/cloud-manager/?jmp=docs) Backup, ensure that you're running *at least* version
``v20131216.1`` of the Backup agent before upgrading. Version ``1.4.0`` of
the backup agent followed ``v20131216.1``


### Preparedness

Before upgrading MongoDB always test your application in a staging
environment before deploying the upgrade to your production
environment.

To begin the upgrade procedure, connect a 2.6 [``mongo``](#bin.mongo) shell
to your MongoDB 2.4 [``mongos``](#bin.mongos) or [``mongod``](#bin.mongod) and run the
[``db.upgradeCheckAllDBs()``](#db.upgradeCheckAllDBs) to check your data set for
compatibility. This is a preliminary automated check. Assess and
resolve all issues identified by [``db.upgradeCheckAllDBs()``](#db.upgradeCheckAllDBs).

Some changes in MongoDB 2.6 require manual checks and
intervention. See [Compatibility Changes in MongoDB 2.6](#) for an
explanation of these changes. Resolve all incompatibilities in your
deployment before continuing.

For a deployment that uses authentication and authorization, be sure
you have at least one user in the ``admin`` database with the role
[``userAdminAnyDatabase``](#userAdminAnyDatabase) **before** upgrading the MongoDB
binaries. For deployments currently using
authentication and authorization, see the [consideration for
deployments that use authentication and authorization](#upgrade-auth-prereq).


### Authentication

MongoDB 2.6 includes significant changes to the authorization model,
which requires changes to the way that MongoDB stores users'
credentials. As a result, in addition to upgrading MongoDB processes,
if your deployment uses authentication and authorization, after
upgrading all MongoDB process to 2.6 you **must** also upgrade the
authorization model.

**Before** beginning the upgrade process for a deployment that uses
authentication and authorization:

* Ensure that at least one user exists in the ``admin`` database with the role [``userAdminAnyDatabase``](#userAdminAnyDatabase). 

* If your application performs CRUD operations on the ``<database>.system.users`` collection or uses a ``db.addUser()``-like method, then you **must** upgrade those drivers (i.e. client libraries) **before** [``mongod``](#bin.mongod) or [``mongos``](#bin.mongos) instances. 

* You must fully complete the upgrade procedure for *all* MongoDB processes before upgrading the authorization model. 

After you begin to upgrade a MongoDB deployment that uses
authentication to 2.6, you *cannot* modify existing user data until
you complete the [authorization user schema upgrade](#).

See [Upgrade User Authorization Data to 2.6 Format](#upgrade-authorization-model) for a complete discussion
of the upgrade procedure for the authorization model including
additional requirements and procedures.


### Downgrade Limitations

Once upgraded to MongoDB 2.6, you **cannot** downgrade to **any** version
earlier than MongoDB 2.4. If you created ``text`` or ``2dsphere``
indexes while running 2.6, you can only downgrade to MongoDB 2.4.10 or
later.


### Package Upgrades

If you installed MongoDB from the MongoDB ``apt`` or ``yum`` repositories,
upgrade to 2.6 using the package manager.

For Debian, Ubuntu, and related operating systems, type these commands:

```javascript

sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install mongodb-org

```

For Red Hat Enterprise, CentOS, Fedora, or Amazon Linux:

```javascript

sudo yum install mongodb-org

```

If you did not install the ``mongodb-org`` package, and installed a subset
of MongoDB components replace ``mongodb-org`` in the commands above with
the appropriate package names.

See installation instructions for [Ubuntu](#), [RHEL](#),
[Debian](#), or [other Linux
Systems](#) for a list of the available
packages and complete MongoDB installation instructions.


## Upgrade MongoDB Processes


### Upgrade Standalone ``mongod`` Instance to MongoDB 2.6

The following steps outline the procedure to upgrade a standalone
[``mongod``](#bin.mongod) from version 2.4 to 2.6. To upgrade from version
2.2 to 2.6, [upgrade to version 2.4](#) *first*, and then follow the procedure to
upgrade from 2.4 to 2.6.

1. Download binaries of the latest release in the 2.6 series from the [MongoDB Download Page](http://www.mongodb.org/downloads). See [Install MongoDB](#) for more information. 

2. Shut down your [``mongod``](#bin.mongod) instance. Replace the existing binary with the 2.6 [``mongod``](#bin.mongod) binary and restart [``mongod``](#bin.mongod). 


### Upgrade a Replica Set to 2.6

The following steps outline the procedure to upgrade a replica set from
MongoDB 2.4 to MongoDB 2.6. To upgrade from MongoDB 2.2 to 2.6,
[upgrade all members of the replica set to version 2.4](#) *first*, and then follow the procedure to
upgrade from MongoDB 2.4 to 2.6.

You can upgrade from MongoDB 2.4 to 2.6 using a "rolling" upgrade to
minimize downtime by upgrading the members individually while the other
members are available:


#### Step 1: Upgrade secondary members of the replica set.

Upgrade the [*secondary*](#term-secondary) members of the set one at a time by
shutting down the [``mongod``](#bin.mongod) and replacing the 2.4 binary
with the 2.6 binary. After upgrading a [``mongod``](#bin.mongod) instance,
wait for the member to recover to ``SECONDARY`` state
before upgrading the next instance.
To check the member's state, issue [``rs.status()``](#rs.status) in the
[``mongo``](#bin.mongo) shell.


#### Step 2: Step down the replica set primary.

Use [``rs.stepDown()``](#rs.stepDown) in the [``mongo``](#bin.mongo) shell to
step down the [*primary*](#term-primary) and force the set to [failover](#replica-set-failover). [``rs.stepDown()``](#rs.stepDown)
expedites the failover procedure and is preferable to shutting down
the primary directly.


#### Step 3: Upgrade the primary.

When [``rs.status()``](#rs.status) shows that the primary has stepped down
and another member has assumed ``PRIMARY`` state, shut down the
previous primary and replace the [``mongod``](#bin.mongod) binary with the
2.6 binary and start the new instance.

Replica set failover is not instant but will render the set
unavailable accept writes until the failover process
completes. Typically this takes 30 seconds or more: schedule the
upgrade procedure during a scheduled maintenance window.


### Upgrade a Sharded Cluster to 2.6

Only upgrade sharded clusters to 2.6 if **all** members of the
cluster are currently running instances of 2.4. The only supported
upgrade path for sharded clusters running 2.2 is via 2.4. The upgrade
process checks all components of the cluster and will produce warnings
if any component is running version 2.2.


#### Considerations

The upgrade process does not require any downtime. However, while you
upgrade the sharded cluster, ensure that clients do not make changes
to the collection meta-data. For example, during the upgrade, do **not**
do any of the following:

* [``sh.enableSharding()``](#sh.enableSharding) 

* [``sh.shardCollection()``](#sh.shardCollection) 

* [``sh.addShard()``](#sh.addShard) 

* [``db.createCollection()``](#db.createCollection) 

* [``db.collection.drop()``](#db.collection.drop) 

* [``db.dropDatabase()``](#db.dropDatabase) 

* any operation that creates a database 

* any other operation that modifies the cluster metadata in any way. See [Sharding Reference](#) for a complete list of sharding commands. Note, however, that not all commands on the [Sharding Reference](#) page modifies the cluster meta-data. 


#### Upgrade Sharded Clusters

*Optional but Recommended.* As a precaution, take a backup of the
``config`` database *before* upgrading the sharded cluster.


##### Step 1: Disable the Balancer.

Turn off the [balancer](#sharding-balancing-internals) in the
sharded cluster, as described in
[Disable the Balancer](#sharding-balancing-disable-temporarily).


##### Step 2: Upgrade the cluster's meta data.

Start a single 2.6 [``mongos``](#bin.mongos) instance with
the [``configDB``](#sharding.configDB) pointing to the cluster's config servers and with
the ``--upgrade`` option.

To run a [``mongos``](#bin.mongos) with the ``--upgrade`` option, you
can upgrade an existing [``mongos``](#bin.mongos) instance to 2.6, or if you
need to avoid reconfiguring a production [``mongos``](#bin.mongos) instance,
you can use a new 2.6 [``mongos``](#bin.mongos) that can reach all the config
servers.

To upgrade the meta data, run:

```sh

mongos --configdb <configDB string> --upgrade

```

You can include the ``--logpath`` option
to output the log messages to a file instead of the standard
output. Also include any other options required to start
[``mongos``](#bin.mongos) instances in your cluster, such as
``--sslOnNormalPorts`` or
``--sslPEMKeyFile``.

The [``mongos``](#bin.mongos) will exit upon completion of the
``--upgrade`` process.

The upgrade will prevent any chunk moves or splits from occurring
during the upgrade process. If the data files have many sharded
collections or if failed processes hold stale locks,
acquiring the locks for all collections can take
seconds or minutes. Watch the log for progress updates.


##### Step 3: Ensure ``mongos --upgrade`` process completes successfully.

The [``mongos``](#bin.mongos) will exit upon completion of the meta data
upgrade process. If successful, the process will log the following
messages:

```sh

upgrade of config server to v5 successful
Config database is at version v5

```

After a successful upgrade, restart the [``mongos``](#bin.mongos) instance.
If [``mongos``](#bin.mongos) fails to start, check the log for more
information.

If the [``mongos``](#bin.mongos) instance loses its connection to the config
servers during the upgrade or if the upgrade is otherwise
unsuccessful, you may always safely retry the upgrade.


##### Step 4: Upgrade the remaining ``mongos`` instances to v2.6.

Upgrade and restart **without** the ``--upgrade`` option the
other [``mongos``](#bin.mongos) instances in the sharded cluster. After
upgrading all the [``mongos``](#bin.mongos), see
[Complete Sharded Cluster Upgrade](#finalize-shard-cluster-upgrade) for information on
upgrading the other cluster components.


#### Complete Sharded Cluster Upgrade

After you have successfully upgraded *all* [``mongos``](#bin.mongos) instances,
you can upgrade the other instances in your MongoDB deployment.

Warning: Do not upgrade [``mongod``](#bin.mongod) instances until after you have upgraded *all* [``mongos``](#bin.mongos) instances. 

While the balancer is still disabled, upgrade the components of your
sharded cluster in the following order:

* Upgrade all 3 [``mongod``](#bin.mongod) config server instances, leaving the *first* system in the ``mongos --configdb`` argument to upgrade *last*. 

* Upgrade each shard, one at a time, upgrading the [``mongod``](#bin.mongod) secondaries before running [``replSetStepDown``](#dbcmd.replSetStepDown) and upgrading the primary of each shard. 

When this process is complete, [re-enable the
balancer](#sharding-balancing-enable).


## Upgrade Procedure

Once upgraded to MongoDB 2.6, you **cannot** downgrade to **any** version
earlier than MongoDB 2.4. If you have ``text`` or ``2dsphere`` indexes,
you can only downgrade to MongoDB 2.4.10 or later.

**Except** as described on this page, moving between 2.4 and 2.6 is a
drop-in replacement:


### Step 1: Stop the existing ``mongod`` instance.

For example, on Linux, run 2.4 [``mongod``](#bin.mongod) with the
[``--shutdown``](#cmdoption-shutdown) option as follows:

```sh

mongod --dbpath /var/mongod/data --shutdown

```

Replace ``/var/mongod/data`` with your MongoDB [``dbPath``](#storage.dbPath).
See also the [Stop mongod Processes](#terminate-mongod-processes) for alternate methods of
stopping a [``mongod``](#bin.mongod) instance.


### Step 2: Start the new ``mongod`` instance.

Ensure you start the 2.6 [``mongod``](#bin.mongod) with the same
[``dbPath``](#storage.dbPath):

```sh

mongod --dbpath /var/mongod/data

```

Replace ``/var/mongod/data`` with your MongoDB [``dbPath``](#storage.dbPath).
