+++
title = "Upgrade MongoDB to 3.0"

[tags]
+++
# Upgrade MongoDB to 3.0


# On this page

* [Upgrade Recommendations and Checklists](#upgrade-recommendations-and-checklists) 

* [Upgrade MongoDB Processes](#upgrade-mongodb-processes) 

* [Upgrade Existing ``MONGODB-CR`` Users to Use ``SCRAM-SHA-1``](#upgrade-existing-mongodb-cr-users-to-use-scram-sha-1) 

* [General Upgrade Procedure](#general-action-procedure) 

In the general case, the upgrade from MongoDB 2.6 to 3.0 is a
binary-compatible "drop-in" upgrade: shut down the [``mongod``](#bin.mongod)
instances and replace them with [``mongod``](#bin.mongod) instances running
3.0. **However**, before you attempt any upgrade please familiarize
yourself with the content of this document, particularly the procedure
for [upgrading sharded clusters](#upgrade-cluster).

If you need guidance on upgrading to 3.0, [MongoDB offers consulting](https://www.mongodb.com/products/consulting?jmp=docs#major_version_upgrade)
to help ensure a smooth transition without interruption to your
MongoDB application.


## Upgrade Recommendations and Checklists

When upgrading, consider the following:


### Upgrade Requirements

To upgrade an existing MongoDB deployment to 3.0, you must be running
2.6. If you're running a version of MongoDB before 2.6, you *must*
upgrade to 2.6 before upgrading to 3.0.
See [Upgrade to 2.6](https://docs.mongodb.com/v2.6/release-notes/2.6-upgrade) for the procedure to upgrade from 2.4
to 2.6. Once upgraded to MongoDB 2.6, you **cannot** downgrade to any
version earlier than MongoDB 2.4.

If your existing MongoDB deployment is already running with
authentication and authorization, your user data model ``authSchema``
must be at least version 3. To verify the version of your existing
``authSchema``, see [MongoDB 2.4 User Model Removed](#legacy-auth-model-removed). To upgrade your
``authSchema`` version, see
[Upgrade Authorization Data](#) for details.


### Preparedness

Before upgrading MongoDB, always test your application in a staging
environment before deploying the upgrade to your production
environment.

Some changes in MongoDB 3.0 require manual checks and intervention.
Before beginning your upgrade, see the
[Compatibility Changes in MongoDB 3.0](https://docs.mongodb.com/v3.0/release-notes/3.0-compatibility) document to ensure that your
applications and deployments are compatible with MongoDB 3.0. Resolve
the incompatibilities in your deployment before starting the upgrade.


### Downgrade Limitations

Once upgraded to MongoDB 3.0, you **cannot** downgrade to a version
lower than **2.6.8**.

If you upgrade to 3.0 and have run [``authSchemaUpgrade``](#dbcmd.authSchemaUpgrade), you
**cannot** downgrade to 2.6 without disabling [``--auth``](#cmdoption-auth) or
restoring a pre-upgrade backup, as [``authSchemaUpgrade``](#dbcmd.authSchemaUpgrade)
discards the ``MONGODB-CR`` credentials used in 2.6. See
[Upgrade Existing MONGODB-CR Users to Use SCRAM-SHA-1](#upgrade-auth-schema).


## Upgrade MongoDB Processes


### Upgrade Standalone ``mongod`` Instance to MongoDB 3.0

The following steps outline the procedure to upgrade a standalone
[``mongod``](#bin.mongod) from version 2.6 to 3.0. To upgrade from version
2.4 to 3.0, [upgrade to version 2.6](https://docs.mongodb.com/v2.6/release-notes/2.6-upgrade)
*first*, and then use the following procedure to upgrade from 2.6 to 3.0.


#### Upgrade Binaries

If you installed MongoDB from the MongoDB ``apt``, ``yum``, or ``zypper``
repositories, you should upgrade to 3.0 using your package manager. Follow the
appropriate [installation instructions](https://docs.mongodb.com/v3.0/administration/install-on-linux)
for your Linux system. This will involve adding a repository for the new
release, then performing the actual upgrade.

Otherwise, you can manually upgrade MongoDB:


##### Step 1: Download 3.0 binaries.

Download binaries of the latest release in the 3.0 series from the
[MongoDB Download Page](http://www.mongodb.org/downloads?jmp=docs). See [Install MongoDB](#) for more
information.


##### Step 2: Replace 2.6 binaries.

Shut down your [``mongod``](#bin.mongod) instance. Replace the existing
binary with the 3.0 [``mongod``](#bin.mongod) binary and restart
[``mongod``](#bin.mongod).


#### Change Storage Engine for Standalone to WiredTiger

To change the storage engine for a standalone [``mongod``](#bin.mongod)
instance to WiredTiger, see
[Change Standalone to WiredTiger](#).


### Upgrade a Replica Set to 3.0


#### Prerequisites

* If the oplog contains entries generated by versions of MongoDB that precede version 2.2.1, you must wait for the entries to be overwritten by later versions *before* you can upgrade to MongoDB 3.0. For more information, see [Replica Set Oplog Format Change](#oplog-format-change) 

* [Stricter validation in MongoDB 3.0](#compatibility-repl-set-config) of replica set configuration may invalidate previously-valid replica set configuration, preventing replica sets from starting in MongoDB 3.0. For more information, see [Replica Set Configuration Validation](#compatibility-repl-set-config). 

* All replica set members must be running version 2.6 before you can upgrade them to version 3.0. To upgrade a replica set from an earlier MongoDB version, [upgrade all members of the replica set to version 2.6](https://docs.mongodb.com/v2.6/release-notes/2.6-upgrade) *first*, and then follow the procedure to upgrade from MongoDB 2.6 to 3.0. 


#### Upgrade Binaries

You can upgrade from MongoDB 2.6 to 3.0 using a "rolling" upgrade to
minimize downtime by upgrading the members individually while the other
members are available:


##### Step 1: Upgrade secondary members of the replica set.

Upgrade the [*secondary*](#term-secondary) members of the set one at a time by
shutting down the [``mongod``](#bin.mongod) and replacing the 2.6 binary
with the 3.0 binary. After upgrading a [``mongod``](#bin.mongod) instance,
wait for the member to recover to ``SECONDARY`` state
before upgrading the next instance.
To check the member's state, issue [``rs.status()``](#rs.status) in the
[``mongo``](#bin.mongo) shell.


##### Step 2: Step down the replica set primary.

Use [``rs.stepDown()``](#rs.stepDown) in the [``mongo``](#bin.mongo) shell to
step down the [*primary*](#term-primary) and force the set to [failover](#replica-set-failover). [``rs.stepDown()``](#rs.stepDown)
expedites the failover procedure and is preferable to shutting down
the primary directly.


##### Step 3: Upgrade the primary.

When [``rs.status()``](#rs.status) shows that the primary has stepped down
and another member has assumed ``PRIMARY`` state, shut down the
previous primary and replace the [``mongod``](#bin.mongod) binary with the
3.0 binary and start the new instance.

Replica set failover is not instant and will render the set
unavailable to accept writes until the failover process
completes. This may take 30 seconds or more: schedule the
upgrade procedure during a scheduled maintenance window.


#### Change Replica Set Storage Engine to WiredTiger

To change the storage engine for a replica set to WiredTiger,
see [Change Replica Set to WiredTiger](#).


### Upgrade a Sharded Cluster to 3.0

Only upgrade sharded clusters to 3.0 if **all** members of the
cluster are currently running instances of 2.6. The only supported
upgrade path for sharded clusters running 2.4 is via 2.6. The upgrade
process checks all components of the cluster and will produce warnings
if any component is running version 2.4.


#### Considerations

The upgrade process does not require any downtime. However, while you
upgrade the sharded cluster, ensure that clients do not make changes
to the collection meta-data. For example, during the upgrade, do **not**
do any of the following:

* [``sh.enableSharding()``](#sh.enableSharding) 

* [``sh.shardCollection()``](#sh.shardCollection) 

* [``sh.addShard()``](#sh.addShard) 

* [``db.createCollection()``](#db.createCollection) 

* [``db.collection.drop()``](#db.collection.drop) 

* [``db.dropDatabase()``](#db.dropDatabase) 

* any operation that creates a database 

* any other operation that modifies the cluster metadata in any way. See [Sharding Reference](#) for a complete list of sharding commands. Note, however, that not all commands on the [Sharding Reference](#) page modifies the cluster meta-data. 


#### Upgrade Sharded Clusters

*Optional but Recommended.* As a precaution, take a backup of the
``config`` database *before* upgrading the sharded cluster.


##### Step 1: Disable the Balancer.

Turn off the [balancer](#sharding-balancing-internals) in the
sharded cluster, as described in
[Disable the Balancer](#sharding-balancing-disable-temporarily).


##### Step 2: Upgrade the cluster's meta data.

Start a single 3.0 [``mongos``](#bin.mongos) instance with
the [``configDB``](#sharding.configDB) pointing to the cluster's config servers and with
the ``--upgrade`` option.

To run a [``mongos``](#bin.mongos) with the ``--upgrade`` option, you
can upgrade an existing [``mongos``](#bin.mongos) instance to 3.0, or if you
need to avoid reconfiguring a production [``mongos``](#bin.mongos) instance,
you can use a new 3.0 [``mongos``](#bin.mongos) that can reach all the config
servers.

To upgrade the meta data, run:

```sh

mongos --configdb <configDB string> --upgrade

```

You can include the ``--logpath`` option
to output the log messages to a file instead of the standard
output. Also include any other options required to start
[``mongos``](#bin.mongos) instances in your cluster, such as
``--sslOnNormalPorts`` or
``--sslPEMKeyFile``.

The 3.0 [``mongos``](#bin.mongos) will output informational log
messages.

```sh

<timestamp> I SHARDING [mongosMain] MongoS version 3.0.0 starting: ...
...
<timestamp> I SHARDING [mongosMain] starting upgrade of config server from v5 to v6
<timestamp> I SHARDING [mongosMain] starting next upgrade step from v5 to v6
<timestamp> I SHARDING [mongosMain] about to log new metadata event: ...
<timestamp> I SHARDING [mongosMain] checking that version of host ... is compatible with 2.6
...
<timestamp> I SHARDING [mongosMain] upgrade of config server to v6 successful
...
<timestamp> I SHARDING [mongosMain] distributed lock 'configUpgrade/...' unlocked.
<timestamp> I -        [mongosMain] Config database is at version v6

```

The [``mongos``](#bin.mongos) will exit upon completion of the
``--upgrade`` process.

The upgrade will prevent any chunk moves or splits from occurring
during the upgrade process. If the data files have many sharded
collections or if failed processes hold stale locks,
acquiring the locks for all collections can take
seconds or minutes. Watch the log for progress updates.


##### Step 3: Ensure ``mongos --upgrade`` process completes successfully.

The [``mongos``](#bin.mongos) will exit upon completion of the meta data
upgrade process. If successful, the process will log the following
messages:

```sh

<timestamp> I SHARDING [mongosMain] upgrade of config server to v6 successful
...
<timestamp> I -        [mongosMain] Config database is at version v6

```

After a successful upgrade, restart the [``mongos``](#bin.mongos) instance.
If [``mongos``](#bin.mongos) fails to start, check the log for more
information.

If the [``mongos``](#bin.mongos) instance loses its connection to the config
servers during the upgrade or if the upgrade is otherwise
unsuccessful, you may always safely retry the upgrade.


##### Step 4: Upgrade the remaining ``mongos`` instances to 3.0.

Upgrade and restart **without** the ``--upgrade`` option the
other [``mongos``](#bin.mongos) instances in the sharded cluster.

After you have successfully upgraded *all* [``mongos``](#bin.mongos)
instances, you can proceed to upgrade the other components in your
sharded cluster.

Warning: Do not upgrade the [``mongod``](#bin.mongod) instances until after you have upgraded *all* the [``mongos``](#bin.mongos) instances. 


##### Step 5: Upgrade the config servers.

After you have successfully upgraded *all* [``mongos``](#bin.mongos)
instances, upgrade all 3 [``mongod``](#bin.mongod) config server instances,
leaving the *first* config server listed in the
[``mongos --configdb``](#cmdoption-configdb) argument to upgrade *last*.


##### Step 6: Upgrade the shards.

Upgrade each shard, one at a time, upgrading the [``mongod``](#bin.mongod)
secondaries before running [``replSetStepDown``](#dbcmd.replSetStepDown) and upgrading
the primary of each shard.


##### Step 7: Re-enable the balancer.

Once the upgrade of sharded cluster components is
complete, [Re-enable the balancer](#sharding-balancing-enable).


#### Change Sharded Cluster Storage Engine to WiredTiger

For a sharded cluster in MongoDB 3.0, you can choose to update the
shards to use WiredTiger storage engine and have the config servers use
MMAPv1. If you update the config servers to use WiredTiger, you must
update all three config servers to use WiredTiger.

To change a sharded cluster to use WiredTiger, see
[Change Sharded Cluster to WiredTiger](#).


## Upgrade Existing ``MONGODB-CR`` Users to Use ``SCRAM-SHA-1``

After upgrading the binaries, see [Upgrade to SCRAM-SHA-1](#scram) for details on
``SCRAM-SHA-1`` upgrade scenarios.


## General Upgrade Procedure

**Except** as described on this page, moving between 2.6 and 3.0 is a
drop-in replacement:


### Step 1: Stop the existing ``mongod`` instance.

For example, on Linux, run 2.6 [``mongod``](#bin.mongod) with the
[``--shutdown``](#cmdoption-shutdown) option as follows:

```sh

mongod --dbpath /var/mongod/data --shutdown

```

Replace ``/var/mongod/data`` with your MongoDB [``dbPath``](#storage.dbPath).
See also the [Stop mongod Processes](#terminate-mongod-processes) for alternate methods of
stopping a [``mongod``](#bin.mongod) instance.


### Step 2: Start the new ``mongod`` instance.

Ensure you start the 3.0 [``mongod``](#bin.mongod) with the same
[``dbPath``](#storage.dbPath):

```sh

mongod --dbpath /var/mongod/data

```

Replace ``/var/mongod/data`` with your MongoDB [``dbPath``](#storage.dbPath).
