+++
title = "Upgrade MongoDB to 3.2"

[tags]
mongodb = "product"
+++

Before you attempt any upgrade, please familiarize yourself with the
content of this document.

If you need guidance on upgrading to 3.2, [MongoDB offers 3.2 upgrade services](https://www.mongodb.com/contact/mongodb-3-2-upgrade-services?jmp=docs) to help ensure a smooth transition without interruption to your
MongoDB application.


## Upgrade Recommendations and Checklists

When upgrading, consider the following:


### Upgrade Requirements

To upgrade an existing MongoDB deployment to 3.2, you must be running a
3.0-series release.

To upgrade from a 2.6-series release, you *must* upgrade to the latest
3.0-series release before upgrading to 3.2. For the procedure to
upgrade from the 2.6-series to a 3.0-series release, see [Upgrade
to 3.0](https://docs.mongodb.com/v3.0/release-notes/3.0-upgrade).


### Preparedness

Before beginning your upgrade, see the [Compatibility Changes in
MongoDB 3.2](https://docs.mongodb.com/v3.2/release-notes/3.2-compatibility) document to ensure that
your applications and deployments are compatible with MongoDB 3.2.
Resolve the incompatibilities in your deployment before starting the
upgrade.

Before upgrading MongoDB, always test your application in a staging
environment before deploying the upgrade to your production
environment.


## Upgrade Standalone ``mongod`` Instance to MongoDB 3.2

The following steps outline the procedure to upgrade a standalone
[``mongod``](#bin.mongod) from version 3.0 to 3.2. To upgrade from version
2.6 to 3.2, [upgrade to the latest
3.0-series release](https://docs.mongodb.com/v3.0/release-notes/3.0-upgrade)
*first*, and then use the following procedure to upgrade from 3.0 to 3.2.


### Upgrade with Package Manager

If you installed MongoDB from the MongoDB ``apt``, ``yum``, ``dnf``, or
``zypper`` repositories, you should upgrade to 3.2 using your package
manager. Follow the appropriate [installation instructions](https://docs.mongodb.com/v3.2/administration/install-on-linux) for your Linux system. This will
involve adding a repository for the new release, then performing the
actual upgrade.


### Manual Upgrade

Otherwise, you can manually upgrade MongoDB:


#### Step 1: Download 3.2 binaries.

Download binaries of the latest release in the 3.2 series from the
[MongoDB Download Page](http://www.mongodb.org/downloads?jmp=docs). See [Install MongoDB](#) for more
information.


#### Step 2: Replace with 3.2 binaries

Shut down your [``mongod``](#bin.mongod) instance. Replace the existing
binary with the 3.2 [``mongod``](#bin.mongod) binary and restart
[``mongod``](#bin.mongod).

Note: MongoDB 3.2 generates core dumps on some [``mongod``](#bin.mongod) failures. For production environments, you may prefer to turn off core dumps for the operating system, if not already. 


## Upgrade a Replica Set to 3.2


### Prerequisites

All replica set members must be running version 3.0 before you can
upgrade them to version 3.2. To upgrade a replica set from an earlier
MongoDB version, [upgrade all members of the replica set to the latest
3.0-series release](https://docs.mongodb.com/v3.0/release-notes/3.0-upgrade) *first*, and then follow the procedure
to upgrade from MongoDB 3.0 to 3.2.


### Upgrade Binaries

You can upgrade from MongoDB 3.0 to 3.2 using a "rolling" upgrade to
minimize downtime by upgrading the members individually while the other
members are available:

Avoid reconfiguring replica sets that contain members of different
MongoDB versions as validation rules may differ across MongoDB versions.


#### Step 1: Upgrade secondary members of the replica set.

Upgrade the [secondary](#replica-set-secondary-members)
members of the replica set one at a time:

* Shut down the [``mongod``](#bin.mongod) instance and replace the 3.0 binary with the 3.2 binary. 

* Restart the member and wait for the member to recover to ``SECONDARY`` state before upgrading the next secondary member. To check the member's state, issue [``rs.status()``](#rs.status) in the [``mongo``](#bin.mongo) shell. 


#### Step 2: Step down the replica set primary.

Connect a [``mongo``](#bin.mongo) shell to the primary and use
[``rs.stepDown()``](#rs.stepDown) to step down the primary and force an
election of a new primary:


#### Step 3: Upgrade the primary.

When [``rs.status()``](#rs.status)
shows that the primary has stepped down and another member
has assumed ``PRIMARY`` state, upgrade the stepped-down primary:

* Shut down the stepped-down primary and replace the [``mongod``](#bin.mongod) binary with the 3.2 binary. 

* Restart. 

Replica set failover is not instant and will render the set
unavailable to accept writes until the failover process
completes. This may take 30 seconds or more: schedule the
upgrade procedure during a scheduled maintenance window.

Note: MongoDB 3.2 generates core dumps on some [``mongod``](#bin.mongod) failures. For production environments, you may prefer to turn off core dumps for the operating system, if not already. 


## Upgrade a Sharded Cluster to 3.2


### Prerequisites

* Version 3.0 or Greater

     To upgrade a sharded cluster to 3.2, **all** members of the
     cluster must be at least version 3.0. The upgrade process checks
     all components of the cluster and will produce warnings if any
     component is running version earlier than 3.0.

* Stop Metadata Changes during the Upgrade

     During the upgrade, ensure that clients do not make changes to the
     collection metadata. For example, during the upgrade, do **not**
     perform any of the following operations:

     * [``sh.enableSharding()``](#sh.enableSharding) 

     * [``sh.shardCollection()``](#sh.shardCollection) 

     * [``sh.addShard()``](#sh.addShard) 

     * [``db.createCollection()``](#db.createCollection) 

     * [``db.collection.drop()``](#db.collection.drop) 

     * [``db.dropDatabase()``](#db.dropDatabase) 

     * any operation that creates a database 

     * any other operation that modifies the cluster metadata in any way. 

     See the [Sharding Reference](#) for a complete list of sharding
     commands. Not all commands on the [Sharding Reference](#) page
     modify the cluster metadata.

* [Disable the balancer](#sharding-balancing-disable-temporarily) 

* Back up the ``config`` Database

     *Optional but Recommended.* As a precaution, take a backup of the
     ``config`` database *before* upgrading the sharded cluster.


### Upgrade Binaries


#### Step 1: Disable the Balancer.

Disable the balancer as described in
[Disable the Balancer](#sharding-balancing-disable-temporarily).


#### Step 2: Upgrade the shards.

Upgrade the shards one at a time. If the shards are replica sets,
for each shard:

1. Upgrade the [secondary](#replica-set-secondary-members) members of the replica set one at a time: 

   * Shut down the [``mongod``](#bin.mongod) instance and replace the 3.0 binary with the 3.2 binary. 

   * Restart the member and wait for the member to recover to ``SECONDARY`` state before upgrading the next secondary member. To check the member's state, issue [``rs.status()``](#rs.status) in the [``mongo``](#bin.mongo) shell. 

2. Step down the replica set primary. 

   Connect a [``mongo``](#bin.mongo) shell to the primary and use
   [``rs.stepDown()``](#rs.stepDown) to step down the primary and force an
   election of a new primary:

   ```javascript

   rs.stepDown()

   ```

3. When [``rs.status()``](#rs.status) shows that the primary has stepped down and another member has assumed ``PRIMARY`` state, upgrade the stepped-down primary: 

   * Shut down the stepped-down primary and replace the [``mongod``](#bin.mongod) binary with the 3.2 binary. 

   * Restart. 


#### Step 3: Upgrade the config servers.

Upgrade the config servers one at a time in reverse order of the
[``configDB``](#sharding.configDB) or [``--configdb``](#cmdoption-configdb) setting for the
[``mongos``](#bin.mongos). That is, if the [``mongos``](#bin.mongos) has the
following [``--configdb``](#cmdoption-configdb) listing:

```sh

mongos --configdb confserver1:port1,confserver2:port2,confserver3:port2

```

Upgrade first ``confserver3``, then ``confserver2``, and lastly
``confserver1``.

Starting with the last config server listed in the
[``configDB``](#sharding.configDB) setting:

1. Stop the config server and replace with the 3.2 binary. 

2. Start the 3.2 binary with both the ``--configsvr`` and ``--port`` options: 

   ```sh

   mongod --configsvr --port <port> --dbpath <path>

   ```

   If using a [configuration file](#), specify
   [``sharding.clusterRole: configsvr``](#sharding.clusterRole)
   and [``net.port``](#net.port) in the file:

   ```yaml

   sharding:
      clusterRole: configsvr
   net:
      port: <port>
   storage:
      dbpath: <path>

   ```

Repeat for the config server listed *second* in the
[``configDB``](#sharding.configDB) setting, and finally the config server
listed *first* in the [``configDB``](#sharding.configDB) setting.


#### Step 4: Upgrade the ``mongos`` instances.

Replace each [``mongos``](#bin.mongos) instance with the 3.2 binary and
restart.

```sh

mongos --configdb <cfgsvr1:port1>,<cfgsvr2:port2>,<cfgsvr3:port3>

```


#### Step 5: Re-enable the balancer.

Re-enable the balancer as described in
[Enable the Balancer](#sharding-balancing-enable).

Note: MongoDB 3.2 generates core dumps on some [``mongod``](#bin.mongod) failures. For production environments, you may prefer to turn off core dumps for the operating system, if not already. 

Once the sharded cluster binaries have been upgraded to 3.2, existing
config servers will continue to run as mirrored [``mongod``](#bin.mongod)
instances. For instructions on upgrading existing config servers to a
replica set, see [Upgrade Config Servers to Replica Set](https://docs.mongodb.com/v3.2/tutorial/upgrade-config-servers-to-replica-set) (requires MongoDB
version 3.2.4 or later versions).


## Additional Resources

* [Getting ready for MongoDB 3.2? Get our help.](https://www.mongodb.com/contact/mongodb-3-2-upgrade-services?jmp=docs) 
