+++
title = "Downgrade 3.4 Replica Set to 3.2"

[tags]
mongodb = "product"
+++
# Downgrade 3.4 Replica Set to 3.2


Before you attempt any downgrade, familiarize yourself with the content
of this document.


## Downgrade Path

Once upgraded to 3.4, you cannot downgrade to a 3.2.7 or earlier
version. You can only downgrade to a 3.2.8 or later version.


## Create Backup

*Optional but Recommended.*  Create a backup of your database.


## Prerequisites

Before downgrading the binaries, you must downgrade the feature
compatibility version and remove any [3.4 features incompatible](#compatibility-enabled) with 3.2 or earlier versions as generally
outlined below. These steps are necessary only if
``featureCompatibilityVersion`` has ever been set  to ``"3.4"``.


### 1. Downgrade Feature Compatibility Version

1. Connect a [``mongo``](#bin.mongo) shell to the primary. 

2. Downgrade the ``featureCompatibilityVersion`` to ``"3.2"``. 

   ```javascript

   db.adminCommand({setFeatureCompatibilityVersion: "3.2"})

   ```

   This command must perform writes to an internal system collection.
   If for any reason the command does not complete successfully, you
   can safely retry the command on the primary as the operation is
   idempotent.


### 2. Remove Views

If you have defined any views, drop the views before downgrading
MongoDB 3.4 to 3.2.

1. Connect a [``mongo``](#bin.mongo) shell to the primary. 

2. To find views, you can run the following in the [``mongo``](#bin.mongo) shell: 

   ```javascript

   db.adminCommand("listDatabases").databases.forEach(function(d){
      let mdb = db.getSiblingDB(d.name);
      mdb.getCollectionInfos({type: "view"}).forEach(function(c){
         print(mdb[c.name]);
      });
   });

   ```

   In each database that contains views, drop the ``system.views``
   collection to drop all views in that database.


### 3. Remove Collation Option from Collections and Indexes

If you have defined any non-"simple" collation for a collection or an
index, remove the collection or index before downgrading MongoDB 3.4 to
3.2.

1. Connect a [``mongo``](#bin.mongo) shell to the primary. 

2. To find collections with collation specifications, you can run the following in the [``mongo``](#bin.mongo) shell: 

   ```javascript

   db.adminCommand("listDatabases").databases.forEach(function(d){
      let mdb = db.getSiblingDB(d.name);
      mdb.getCollectionInfos( { "options.collation": { $exists: true } } ).forEach(function(c){
         print(mdb[c.name]);
      });
   });

   ```

   You can migrate the content of the collection to a new collection
   without the collation specification (one way is via the
   aggregation pipeline stage [``$out``](#pipe._S_out)).

3. To find indexes with collation specification, you can run the following in the [``mongo``](#bin.mongo) shell: 

   ```javascript

   db.adminCommand("listDatabases").databases.forEach(function(d){
      let mdb = db.getSiblingDB(d.name);
      mdb.getCollectionInfos().forEach(function(c){
         let currentCollection = mdb.getCollection(c.name);
         currentCollection.getIndexes().forEach(function(i){
            if (i.collation){
               printjson(i);
            }
         });
      });
   });

   ```

   Drop the indexes with a collation specification. After the downgrade,
   recreate the dropped indexes.


### 4. Convert Data of Type Decimal

1. Connect a [``mongo``](#bin.mongo) shell to the primary. 

2. Convert any data of [decimal](#decimal) type. In versions of MongoDB earlier than 3.4, operations against documents that contain [decimal](#decimal) type may fail. For some possible conversion options, see [Model Monetary Data](#). 

   To detect the presence of decimal, you can run
   [``db.collection.validate(true)``](#db.collection.validate)
   against the collections which may contain decimal data.

   [``db.collection.validate(true)``](#db.collection.validate)
   reports on decimal data only when ``featureCompatibilityVersion`` is
   ``"3.2"``.


### 5. Downgrade Index Versions

If you have ``v: 2`` indexes (i.e. the default version for indexes
created in MongoDB 3.4 if ``featureCompatibilityVersion: "3.4"``),
[``reindex the collection``](#db.collection.reIndex) to recreate
all indexes on the collection as ``v: 1`` before downgrading MongoDB.

1. Connect a [``mongo``](#bin.mongo) shell to the primary. 

2. To find indexes with ``v: 2``, you can run the following in the [``mongo``](#bin.mongo) shell: 

   ```javascript

   db.adminCommand("listDatabases").databases.forEach(function(d){
      let mdb = db.getSiblingDB(d.name);
      mdb.getCollectionInfos().forEach(function(c){
         let currentCollection = mdb.getCollection(c.name);
         currentCollection.getIndexes().forEach(function(i){
            if (i.v === 2){
               printjson(i);
            }
         });
      });
   });

   ```

Repeat the process on secondary members of the replica set as the
reindex operation does not propagate to the secondaries.

Tip: If connecting a [``mongo``](#bin.mongo) shell to a secondary member, set
[``rs.slaveOk()``](#rs.slaveOk).


## Procedure


### Step 1: Download the latest 3.2 binaries.

Using either a package manager or a manual download, get the latest
release in the 3.2 series. If using a package manager, add a new
repository for the 3.2 binaries, then perform the actual downgrade
process.

Once upgraded to 3.4, you cannot downgrade to a 3.2.7 or earlier
version. You can only downgrade to a 3.2.8 or later version.


### Step 2: Downgrade secondary members of the replica set.

Downgrade each [*secondary*](#term-secondary) member of the replica set, one at a
time:

1. Shut down the [``mongod``](#bin.mongod). See [Stop mongod Processes](#terminate-mongod-processes) for instructions on safely terminating [``mongod``](#bin.mongod) processes. 

2. Replace the 3.4 binary with the 3.2 binary and restart. 

3. Wait for the member to recover to ``SECONDARY`` state before downgrading the next secondary. To check the member's state, use the [``rs.status()``](#rs.status) method in the [``mongo``](#bin.mongo) shell. 


### Step 3: Step down the primary.

Use [``rs.stepDown()``](#rs.stepDown) in the [``mongo``](#bin.mongo) shell to
step down the [*primary*](#term-primary) and force the normal [failover](#replica-set-failover) procedure.

```javascript

rs.stepDown()

```

[``rs.stepDown()``](#rs.stepDown) expedites the failover procedure and is
preferable to shutting down the primary directly.


### Step 4: Replace and restart former primary ``mongod``.

When [``rs.status()``](#rs.status) shows that the primary has stepped down
and another member has assumed ``PRIMARY`` state, shut down the
previous primary and replace the [``mongod``](#bin.mongod) binary with
the 3.2 binary and start the new instance.
