+++
title = "Downgrade 3.4 Sharded Cluster to 3.2"

[tags]
mongodb = "product"
+++

Before you attempt any downgrade, familiarize yourself with the content
of this document.


## Downgrade Path

Once upgraded to 3.4, you cannot downgrade to a 3.2.7 or earlier
version. You can only downgrade to a 3.2.8 or later version.


## Create Backup

*Optional but Recommended.*  Create a backup of your database.


## Prerequisites

Before downgrading the binaries, you must downgrade the feature
compatibility version and remove any [3.4 features incompatible](#compatibility-enabled) with 3.2 or earlier versions as outlined
below. These steps are necessary only if
``featureCompatibilityVersion`` has ever been set to ``"3.4"``.


### 1. Downgrade Feature Compatibility Version

1. Connect a [``mongo``](#bin.mongo) shell to the [``mongos``](#bin.mongos) instance. 

2. Downgrade the ``featureCompatibilityVersion`` to ``"3.2"``. 

   ```javascript

   db.adminCommand({setFeatureCompatibilityVersion: "3.2"})

   ```

   This command must perform writes to an internal system collection.
   If for any reason the command does not complete successfully, you
   can safely retry the command on the [``mongos``](#bin.mongos) instance as the operation is
   idempotent.


### 2. Remove Views

If you have defined any views, drop the views before downgrading
MongoDB 3.4 to 3.2.

1. Connect a [``mongo``](#bin.mongo) shell to the [``mongos``](#bin.mongos) instance. 

2. To find views, you can run the following in the [``mongo``](#bin.mongo) shell: 

   ```javascript

   db.adminCommand("listDatabases").databases.forEach(function(d){
      let mdb = db.getSiblingDB(d.name);
      mdb.getCollectionInfos({type: "view"}).forEach(function(c){
         print(mdb[c.name]);
      });
   });

   ```

   In each database that contains views, drop the ``system.views``
   collection to drop all views in that database.


### 3. Remove Collation Option from Collections and Indexes

If you have defined any non-"simple" collation for a collection or an
index, remove the collection or index before downgrading MongoDB 3.4 to
3.2.

1. Connect a [``mongo``](#bin.mongo) shell to the [``mongos``](#bin.mongos) instance. 

2. To find collections with collation specifications, you can run the following in the [``mongo``](#bin.mongo) shell: 

   ```javascript

   db.adminCommand("listDatabases").databases.forEach(function(d){
      let mdb = db.getSiblingDB(d.name);
      mdb.getCollectionInfos( { "options.collation": { $exists: true } } ).forEach(function(c){
         print(mdb[c.name]);
      });
   });

   ```

   You can migrate the content of the collection to a new collection
   without the collation specification (one way is via the
   aggregation pipeline stage [``$out``](#pipe._S_out)).

3. To find indexes with collation specification, you can run the following in the [``mongo``](#bin.mongo) shell: 

   ```javascript

   db.adminCommand("listDatabases").databases.forEach(function(d){
      let mdb = db.getSiblingDB(d.name);
      mdb.getCollectionInfos().forEach(function(c){
         let currentCollection = mdb.getCollection(c.name);
         currentCollection.getIndexes().forEach(function(i){
            if (i.collation){
               printjson(i);
            }
         });
      });
   });

   ```

   Drop the indexes with a collation specification. After the downgrade,
   recreate the dropped indexes.


### 4. Convert Data of Type Decimal

1. Connect a [``mongo``](#bin.mongo) shell to the [``mongos``](#bin.mongos) instance. 

2. Convert any data of [decimal](#decimal) type. In versions of MongoDB earlier than 3.4, operations against documents that contain [decimal](#decimal) type may fail. For some possible conversion options, see [Model Monetary Data](#). 

   To detect the presence of decimal, you can run
   [``db.collection.validate(true)``](#db.collection.validate)
   against the collections which may contain decimal data.

   [``db.collection.validate(true)``](#db.collection.validate)
   reports on decimal data only when ``featureCompatibilityVersion`` is
   ``"3.2"``.


### 5. Downgrade Index Versions

If you have ``v: 2`` indexes (i.e. the default version for indexes
created in MongoDB 3.4 if ``featureCompatibilityVersion: "3.4"``),
[``reindex the collection``](#db.collection.reIndex) to recreate
all indexes on the collection as ``v: 1`` before downgrading MongoDB.

You must perform this operation on both the shards and the config
servers:

1. Connect a [``mongo``](#bin.mongo) shell to the [``mongos``](#bin.mongos) instance. 

2. To find indexes with ``v: 2``, you can run the following in the [``mongo``](#bin.mongo) shell: 

   ```javascript

   db.adminCommand("listDatabases").databases.forEach(function(d){
      let mdb = db.getSiblingDB(d.name);
      mdb.getCollectionInfos().forEach(function(c){
         let currentCollection = mdb.getCollection(c.name);
         currentCollection.getIndexes().forEach(function(i){
            if (i.v === 2){
               printjson(i);
            }
         });
      });
   });

   ```

3. If a shard is a replica set, repeat this procedure on each member of the shard as the reindex operation does not propagate to the secondaries. 

   Tip: If connecting a [``mongo``](#bin.mongo) shell to a secondary member, set
   [``rs.slaveOk()``](#rs.slaveOk).

4. Repeat the process on each member of the config server replica set. 


## Procedure


### Considerations

While the downgrade is in progress, you cannot make changes to the
collection metadata. For example, during the downgrade, do
**not** do any of the following:

* [``sh.enableSharding()``](#sh.enableSharding) 

* [``sh.shardCollection()``](#sh.shardCollection) 

* [``sh.addShard()``](#sh.addShard) 

* [``db.createCollection()``](#db.createCollection) 

* [``db.collection.drop()``](#db.collection.drop) 

* [``db.dropDatabase()``](#db.dropDatabase) 

* any operation that creates a database 

* any other operation that modifies the cluster meta-data in any way. See [Sharding Reference](#) for a complete list of sharding commands. Note, however, that not all commands on the [Sharding Reference](#) page modify the cluster meta-data. 


### Downgrade a Sharded Cluster


#### Step 1: Download the latest 3.2 binaries.

Using either a package manager or a manual download, get the latest
release in the 3.2 series.  If using a package manager, add a new
repository for the 3.2 binaries, then perform the actual downgrade
process.

Once upgraded to 3.4, you cannot downgrade to a 3.2.7 or earlier
version. You can only downgrade to a 3.2.8 or later version.


#### Step 2: Disable the Balancer.

Turn off the balancer as described in
[Disable the Balancer](#sharding-balancing-disable-temporarily).


#### Step 3: Downgrade the ``mongos`` instances.

Downgrade the binaries and restart.


#### Step 4: Downgrade each shard, one at a time.

Downgrade the shards one at a time. If the shards are replica sets, for each shard:

1. Downgrade the [secondary](#replica-set-secondary-members) members of the replica set one at a time: 

   1. Shut down the [``mongod``](#bin.mongod) instance and replace the 3.4 binary with the 3.2 binary. 

   2. Start the 3.2 binary with the ``--shardsvr`` and ``--port`` command line options. 

      ```sh

      mongod --shardsvr --port <port> --dbpath <path>

      ```

      Of if using a [configuration file](#), update the file to
      include [``sharding.clusterRole: shardsvr``](#sharding.clusterRole) and [``net.port``](#net.port) and start:

      ```yaml

      sharding:
         clusterRole: shardsvr
      net:
         port: <port>
      storage:
         dbpath: <path>

      ```

      Include any other configuration as appropriate for your deployment.

   3. Wait for the member to recover to ``SECONDARY`` state before downgrading the next secondary member. To check the member's state, you can issue [``rs.status()``](#rs.status) in the [``mongo``](#bin.mongo) shell. 

      Repeat for each secondary member.

2. Step down the replica set primary. 

   Connect a [``mongo``](#bin.mongo) shell to the primary and use
   [``rs.stepDown()``](#rs.stepDown) to step down the primary and force an
   election of a new primary:

   ```javascript

   rs.stepDown()

   ```

3. When [``rs.status()``](#rs.status) shows that the primary has stepped down and another member has assumed ``PRIMARY`` state, downgrade the stepped-down primary: 

   1. Shut down the stepped-down primary and replace the [``mongod``](#bin.mongod) binary with the 3.2 binary. 

   2. Start the 3.2 binary with the ``--shardsvr`` and ``--port`` command line options. 

      ```sh

      mongod --shardsvr --port <port> --dbpath <path>

      ```

      Or if using a [configuration file](#), update the file to
      specify [``sharding.clusterRole: shardsvr``](#sharding.clusterRole) and [``net.port``](#net.port) and start the
      3.2 binary:

      ```yaml

      sharding:
         clusterRole: shardsvr
      net:
         port: <port>
      storage:
         dbpath: <path>

      ```

      Include any other configuration as appropriate for your deployment.


#### Step 5: Downgrade the config servers.

If the config servers are replica sets:

1. Downgrade the [secondary](#replica-set-secondary-members) members of the replica set one at a time: 

   1. Shut down the secondary [``mongod``](#bin.mongod) instance and replace the 3.4 binary with the 3.2 binary. 

   2. Start the 3.2 binary with both the ``--configsvr`` and ``--port`` options: 

      ```sh

      mongod --configsvr --port <port> --dbpath <path>

      ```

      If using a [configuration file](#), update the file to
      specify [``sharding.clusterRole: configsvr``](#sharding.clusterRole) and [``net.port``](#net.port) and start the
      3.4 binary:

      ```yaml

      sharding:
         clusterRole: configsvr
      net:
         port: <port>
      storage:
         dbpath: <path>

      ```

      Include any other configuration as appropriate for your deployment.

   3. Wait for the member to recover to ``SECONDARY`` state before downgrading the next secondary member. To check the member's state, issue [``rs.status()``](#rs.status) in the [``mongo``](#bin.mongo) shell. 

      Repeat for each secondary member.

2. Step down the replica set primary. 

   1. Connect a [``mongo``](#bin.mongo) shell to the primary and use [``rs.stepDown()``](#rs.stepDown) to step down the primary and force an election of a new primary: 

      ```javascript

      rs.stepDown()

      ```

   2. When [``rs.status()``](#rs.status) shows that the primary has stepped down and another member has assumed ``PRIMARY`` state, shut down the stepped-down primary and replace the [``mongod``](#bin.mongod) binary with the 3.2 binary. 

   3. Start the 3.2 binary with both the ``--configsvr`` and ``--port`` options: 

      ```sh

      mongod --configsvr --port <port> --dbpath <path>

      ```

      If using a [configuration file](#), update the file to
      specify [``sharding.clusterRole: configsvr``](#sharding.clusterRole) and [``net.port``](#net.port) and start the
      3.4 binary:

      ```yaml

      sharding:
         clusterRole: configsvr
      net:
         port: <port>
      storage:
         dbpath: <path>

      ```

      Include any other configuration as appropriate for your deployment.


#### Step 6: Re-enable the balancer.

Once the downgrade of sharded cluster components is
complete, [re-enable the balancer](#sharding-balancing-enable).
