+++
title = "Upgrade a Replica Set to 3.4"

[tags]
+++
# Upgrade a Replica Set to 3.4


# On this page

* [Upgrade Recommendations and Checklists](#upgrade-recommendations-and-checklists) 

* [Prerequisites](#prerequisites) 

* [Download 3.4 Binaries](#download-newversion-binaries) 

* [Upgrade Process](#upgrade-process) 

* [Additional Upgrade Procedures](#additional-upgrade-procedures) 

Package Updates required on Ubuntu 16.04 for IBM POWER Systems: Due to a lock elision bug present in older versions of the ``glibc``
package on Ubuntu 16.04 for POWER, you must upgrade the ``glibc``
package to at least ``glibc 2.23-0ubuntu5`` before running MongoDB.
Systems with older versions of the ``glibc`` package will experience
database server crashes and misbehavior due to random memory
corruption, and are unsuitable for production deployments of MongoDB

Important: Before you attempt any upgrade, please familiarize yourself with the content of this document. 

If you need guidance on upgrading to 3.4, [MongoDB offers major version
upgrade services](https://www.mongodb.com/products/consulting?jmp=docs) to help ensure
a smooth transition without interruption to your MongoDB application.


## Upgrade Recommendations and Checklists

When upgrading, consider the following:


### Upgrade Version Path

To upgrade an existing MongoDB deployment to 3.4, you must be running a
3.2-series release.

To upgrade from a version earlier than the 3.2-series, you must
successively upgrade major releases until you have upgraded to
3.2-series. For example, if you are running a 3.0-series, you must
upgrade first to [3.2](#) *before* you can upgrade to 3.4.


### Preparedness

Before beginning your upgrade, see the [Compatibility Changes in MongoDB 3.4](#) document to
ensure that your applications and deployments are compatible with
MongoDB 3.4. Resolve the incompatibilities in your deployment before
starting the upgrade.

Before upgrading MongoDB, always test your application in a staging
environment before deploying the upgrade to your production
environment.


### Downgrade Consideration

Once upgraded to 3.4, you cannot downgrade to a 3.2.7 or earlier
version. You can only downgrade to a 3.2.8 or later version.

Warning: Avoid reconfiguring replica sets that contain members of different MongoDB versions as validation rules may differ across MongoDB versions. 


## Prerequisites

To upgrade a replica set to 3.4, all replica set members must be
running version 3.2. To upgrade a replica set from an earlier MongoDB
version, [upgrade all members of the replica set to the latest
3.2-series release](#) *first*, and then
follow the procedure to upgrade from MongoDB 3.2 to 3.4.


## Download 3.4 Binaries


### Via Package Manager

If you installed MongoDB from the MongoDB ``apt``, ``yum``, ``dnf``, or
``zypper`` repositories, you should upgrade to 3.4 using your package
manager.

Follow the appropriate [installation instructions](#) for your Linux system. This will
involve adding a repository for the new release, then performing the
actual upgrade process.


### Manually

If you have not installed MongoDB using a package manager, you can
manually download the MongoDB binaries from the [MongoDB Download
Center](https://www.mongodb.com/download-center?jmp=docs).

See [Install MongoDB](#) for more information.


## Upgrade Process

You can upgrade from MongoDB 3.2 to 3.4 using a "rolling" upgrade to
minimize downtime by upgrading the members individually while the other
members are available:


### Step 1: Upgrade secondary members of the replica set.

Upgrade the [secondary](#replica-set-secondary-members)
members of the replica set one at a time:

* Shut down the [``mongod``](#bin.mongod) instance and replace the 3.2 binary with the 3.4 binary. 

* Restart the member and wait for the member to recover to ``SECONDARY`` state before upgrading the next secondary member. To check the member's state, issue [``rs.status()``](#rs.status) in the [``mongo``](#bin.mongo) shell. 


### Step 2: Step down the replica set primary.

Connect a [``mongo``](#bin.mongo) shell to the primary and use
[``rs.stepDown()``](#rs.stepDown) to step down the primary and force an
election of a new primary.


### Step 3: Upgrade the primary.

When [``rs.status()``](#rs.status)
shows that the primary has stepped down and another member
has assumed ``PRIMARY`` state, upgrade the stepped-down primary:

* Shut down the stepped-down primary and replace the [``mongod``](#bin.mongod) binary with the 3.4 binary. 

* Restart. 


### Step 4: Enable backwards-incompatible 3.4 features.

At this point, you can run the 3.4 binaries without the
3.4 [features that are incompatible](#compatibility-enabled) with 3.2.

To enable these 3.4 features, set the feature compatibility
version to 3.4.

Warning: Enabling these backwards-incompatible features can [complicate the downgrade process](#downgrade-features-prereq). For details, see [Remove 3.4 Incompatible Features](#downgrade-features-prereq).It is recommended that after upgrading, you allow your deployment to run without enabling these features for a burn-in period to ensure the likelihood of downgrade is minimal. When you are confident that the likelihood of downgrade is minimal, enable these features. 

On the primary, run the ``setFeatureCompatibilityVersion`` command in the ``admin`` database:

```javascript

db.adminCommand( { setFeatureCompatibilityVersion: "3.4" } )

```

This command must perform writes to an internal system
collection. If for any reason the command does not complete
successfully, you can safely retry the command on the primary as
the operation is idempotent.


## Additional Upgrade Procedures

* To upgrade a standalone, see [Upgrade a Standalone to 3.4](#upgrade-standalone). 

* To upgrade a sharded cluster, see [Upgrade a Sharded Cluster to 3.4](#upgrade-sharded-cluster). 
