==========================
Atomicity and Transactions
==========================

.. default-domain:: mongodb

.. contents:: On this page
   :local:
   :backlinks: none
   :depth: 1
   :class: singlecol

In MongoDB, a write operation is atomic on the level of a single
document, even if the operation modifies multiple embedded documents
*within* a single document.

.. include:: /includes/extracts/concurrent-operations-multi-document-writes.rst

Transaction-Like Semantics
--------------------------

Since a single document can contain multiple embedded documents,
single-document atomicity is sufficient for many practical use cases.
For cases where a sequence of write operations must operate as if in a
single transaction, you can implement a :doc:`two-phase commit
</tutorial/perform-two-phase-commits>` in your application.

However, two-phase commits can only offer transaction-*like* semantics.
Using two-phase commit ensures data consistency, but it is possible for
applications to return intermediate data during the two-phase commit or
rollback.

For more information on two-phase commit and rollback, see
:doc:`/tutorial/perform-two-phase-commits`.

.. _concurrency-control:

Concurrency Control
-------------------

Concurrency control allows multiple applications to run concurrently
without causing data inconsistency or conflicts.

One approach is to create a :ref:`unique index <index-type-unique>` on a
field that can only have unique values. This prevents insertions or
updates from creating duplicate data. Create a unique index on multiple
fields to force uniqueness on that combination of field values. For
examples of use cases, see :ref:`update() and Unique Index
<update-with-unique-indexes>` and :ref:`findAndModify() and Unique Index
<upsert-and-unique-index>`.

Another approach is to specify the expected current value of a field in
the query predicate for the write operations. The two-phase commit
pattern provides a variation where the query predicate includes the
:ref:`application identifier <2-phase-commits-concurrency>` as well as
the expected state of the data in the write operation.

.. seealso:: :doc:`/core/read-isolation-consistency-recency`
