source/includes/driver-example-query-intro.rst, before:

.. tabs::

   tabs:
     - id: shell
       content: |
         This page provides examples of |query_operations| using the
         :method:`db.collection.find()` method in the
         :program:`mongo` shell. The examples on this page use the
         ``inventory`` collection. To populate the ``inventory``
         collection, run the following:

     - id: python
       content: |
         This page provides examples of |query_operations| using the
         :py:meth:`pymongo.collection.Collection.find` method in the
         `PyMongo <https://api.mongodb.com/python/current/index.html>`_
         Python driver. The examples on this page use the ``inventory``
         collection. To populate the ``inventory`` collection, run the
         following:

     - id: java-sync
       content: |
         This page provides examples of |query_operations| using the
         com.mongodb.client.MongoCollection.find_ method in the `Java
         Synchronous Driver`_. The driver provides
         com.mongodb.client.model.Filters_ helper methods to facilitate
         the creation of filter documents.

         The examples on this page use the ``inventory``
         collection. To populate the ``inventory`` collection, run the
         following:

     - id: php
       content: |
         This page provides examples of |query_operations| using the
         :phpmethod:`MongoDB\\Collection::find() <phpmethod.MongoDB\\Collection::find>`
         method in the
         `MongoDB PHP Library <https://docs.mongodb.com/php-library/master/>`_.
         The examples on this page use the ``inventory`` collection. To
         populate the ``inventory`` collection, run the following:

     - id: perl
       content: |
         This page provides examples of |query_operations| using the
         :perl-api:`MongoDB::Collection::find()<Collection#find>` method
         in the
         `MongoDB Perl Driver <https://metacpan.org/release/MongoDB>`_.
         The examples on this page use the ``inventory`` collection. To
         populate the ``inventory`` collection, run the following:

Commit message:

DOCSP-583 - Added Node.js tab for CRUD examples. Updated template to not render other tab until the sixth language is present.

source/includes/driver-example-query-intro.rst, after:

.. tabs::

   tabs:
     - id: shell
       content: |
         This page provides examples of |query_operations| using the
         :method:`db.collection.find()` method in the
         :program:`mongo` shell. The examples on this page use the
         ``inventory`` collection. To populate the ``inventory``
         collection, run the following:

     - id: python
       content: |
         This page provides examples of |query_operations| using the
         :py:meth:`pymongo.collection.Collection.find` method in the
         `PyMongo <https://api.mongodb.com/python/current/index.html>`_
         Python driver. The examples on this page use the ``inventory``
         collection. To populate the ``inventory`` collection, run the
         following:

     - id: java-sync
       content: |
         This page provides examples of |query_operations| using the
         com.mongodb.client.MongoCollection.find_ method in the `Java
         Synchronous Driver`_. The driver provides
         com.mongodb.client.model.Filters_ helper methods to facilitate
         the creation of filter documents.

         The examples on this page use the ``inventory``
         collection. To populate the ``inventory`` collection, run the
         following:

     - id: nodejs
       content: |
         This page provides examples of |query_operations| using the
         :node-api:`Collection.find() <Collection.html#find>` method in
         the :node-docs:`MongoDB Node.js Driver <>`.
         The examples on this page use the ``inventory`` collection. To
         populate the ``inventory`` collection, run the following:

     - id: php
       content: |
         This page provides examples of |query_operations| using the
         :phpmethod:`MongoDB\\Collection::find() <phpmethod.MongoDB\\Collection::find>`
         method in the
         `MongoDB PHP Library <https://docs.mongodb.com/php-library/master/>`_.
         The examples on this page use the ``inventory`` collection. To
         populate the ``inventory`` collection, run the following:

     - id: perl
       content: |
         This page provides examples of |query_operations| using the
         :perl-api:`MongoDB::Collection::find()<Collection#find>` method
         in the
         `MongoDB Perl Driver <https://metacpan.org/release/MongoDB>`_.
         The examples on this page use the ``inventory`` collection. To
         populate the ``inventory`` collection, run the following:
