source/includes/encryption-at-rest-request-document-aws.rst, before:

.. list-table::
   :widths: 15 10 10 65
   :header-rows: 1
   :stub-columns: 1

   * - Name
     - Type
     - Necessity
     - Description

   * - ``awsKms``
     - object
     - Required
     - |aws| |kms| configuration details and whether {+encrypt-at-rest+}
       is enabled for |a-service| project.

   * - | ``awsKms``
       | ``.accessKeyID``
     - string
     - Optional
     - |iam| access key ID with permissions to access the customer
       master key (``awsKms.customerMasterKeyID``).

   * - | ``awsKms``
       | ``.customerMasterKeyID``
     - string
     - Optional
     - |aws| customer master key used to encrypt and decrypt the MongoDB
       master keys.

   * - | ``awsKms``
       | ``.enabled``
     - boolean
     - Optional
     - Flag that indicates whether {+encrypt-at-rest+} is enabled for
       |a-service| project. To disable {+encrypt-at-rest+}, pass only
       this parameter with a value of ``false``. When you disable
       {+encrypt-at-rest+}, |service| removes the configuration
       details.

   * - | ``awsKms``
       | ``.region``
     - string
     - Optional
     - |aws| region in which the |aws| customer master key exists:

       .. include:: /includes/fact-aws-region-names.rst

   * - | ``awsKms``
       | ``.secretAccessKey``
     - string
     - Optional
     - |iam| secret access key with permissions to access the customer
       master key (``awsKms.customerMasterKeyID``).

Commit message:

Aws kms iam api (#1951)
* DOCSP-11757 role-based access to aws keys for encryption at rest (#1883)

* DOCSP-11757 role-based access to aws keys for encryption at rest

DOCSP-11757 minor typo

* DOCSP-11757 updates for copy review feedback

* DOCSP-11757 updates for tech review feedback

* DOCSP-11757 updates for review feedback

* DOCSP-12625: [Atlas] manage encryption keys with IAM roles in the API (#1896)

Co-authored-by: Steve Renaker <steve.renaker@10gen.com>

source/includes/encryption-at-rest-request-document-aws.rst, after:

.. list-table::
   :widths: 15 10 10 65
   :header-rows: 1
   :stub-columns: 1

   * - Name
     - Type
     - Necessity
     - Description

   * - ``awsKms``
     - object
     - Required
     - |aws| |kms| configuration details and whether {+encrypt-at-rest+}
       is enabled for |a-service| project.

   * - | ``awsKms``
       | ``.accessKeyID``
     - string
     - Optional
     - |iam| access key ID with permissions to access the customer
       master key (``awsKms.customerMasterKeyID``).

   * - | ``awsKms``
       | ``.customerMasterKeyID``
     - string
     - Optional
     - |aws| customer master key used to encrypt and decrypt the MongoDB
       master keys.

   * - | ``awsKms``
       | ``.enabled``
     - boolean
     - Optional
     - Flag that indicates whether {+encrypt-at-rest+} is enabled for
       |a-service| project. To disable {+encrypt-at-rest+}, pass only
       this parameter with a value of ``false``. When you disable
       {+encrypt-at-rest+}, |service| removes the configuration
       details.

   * - | ``awsKms``
       | ``.region``
     - string
     - Optional
     - |aws| region in which the |aws| customer master key exists:

       .. include:: /includes/fact-aws-region-names.rst

   * - | ``awsKms``
       | ``.roleId``
     - string
     - Optional
     - ID of an |aws| |iam| role authorized to manage an |aws| customer
       master key. To find the ID for an existing IAM role, send a :doc:`GET
       request </reference/api/cloud-provider-access-get-roles>` to
       the ``cloudProviderAccess`` API endpoint.

   * - | ``awsKms``
       | ``.secretAccessKey``
     - string
     - Optional
     - |iam| secret access key with permissions to access the customer
       master key (``awsKms.customerMasterKeyID``).
