source/includes/fact-group-region-association.rst, before:

During deployment of an ``M10+`` dedicated paid cluster, |service| creates a
:abbr:`VPC (Virtual Private Cloud)` for the selected provider and region or
regions if no existing :abbr:`VPC (Virtual Private Cloud)` or :abbr:`VPC
(Virtual Private Cloud)` peering connection exists for that provider and
region. |service| assigns the :abbr:`VPC (Virtual Private Cloud)` a Classless
Inter-Domain Routing (CIDR) block. 

For clusters deployed on :abbr:`AWS (Amazon Web Services)`, if you want to
create a :abbr:`VPC (Virtual Private Cloud)` peering connection to an
:abbr:`AWS (Amazon Web Services)` VPC *and* require a specific :abbr:`CIDR
(Classless Inter-Domain Routing)` block for a given region, you must create a
:abbr:`VPC (Virtual Private Cloud)` connection *before* deploying the cluster.
See :doc:`/security-vpc-peering` for for complete documentation on
:abbr:`VPC (Virtual Private Cloud)` peering connections.

.. important::

   Multi-region clusters require one :abbr:`VPC (Virtual Private Cloud)`
   peering connection for each region. MongoDB nodes can use only the
   peering connection that resides in the same region as the nodes
   to communicate with the peered :abbr:`VPC (Virtual Private Cloud)`.

Commit message:

(DOCSP-14111): GCP VPC with smaller CIDR (#2109)

source/includes/fact-group-region-association.rst, after:

During deployment of an ``M10+`` dedicated paid cluster, |service| 
creates a |vpc| for the selected provider and region or regions if no 
existing |vpc| or |vpc| peering connection exists for that provider and 
region. |service| assigns the |vpc| a |cidr| block. 

If you want to create a |vpc| peering connection *and* require a 
specific |cidr| block for a given region, you must create a
|vpc| connection *before* deploying the cluster.
See :doc:`/security-vpc-peering` for complete documentation on
|vpc| peering connections.

For clusters deployed on |gcp|, if your application requres |service| to
use a |cidr| block smaller than ``/18``, you must create a network
peering container using the |service| :ref:`API 
<atlas-create-peering-container-api>` *before* deploying the cluster.
For this |service| project, you can deploy clusters on |gcp| only to the
regions you specify when you created the network peering container that
uses a |cidr| smaller than ``/18``.

.. important::

   Multi-region clusters require one |vpc| peering connection for each 
   region. MongoDB nodes can use only the peering connection that 
   resides in the same region as the nodes to communicate with the 
   peered |vpc|.
