source/includes/fact-index-rolling-build.rst, before:

.. important::

   Rolling index builds succeed only when they meet certain conditions. 
   To ensure your index build succeeds, avoid the following design 
   patterns that commonly trigger a restart loop:

   - Index key exceeds the :manual:`index key limit 
     </reference/limits/#mongodb-limit-Index-Key-Limit>`
   - :manual:`Index name </indexes/#index-names>` already exists
   - Index on :manual:`more than one array field 
     </core/index-multikey/#compound-multikey-indexes>`
   - Index on collection that has the 
     :manual:`maximum number of text indexes 
     </reference/limits/#mongodb-limit-Number-of-Indexes-per-Collection>`
   - Text index on collection that has the
     :manual:`maximum number of text indexes 
     </core/index-text/#one-text-index-per-collection>`

.. note::

   Data Explorer does not support building indexes with a rolling build
   for ``M0`` {+free-clusters+} and ``M2/M5`` {+shared-clusters+}. You 
   can't build indexes with a rolling build for 
   {+serverless-instances+}.

Building indexes in a rolling fashion reduces the performance impact of
building indexes on :term:`replica sets <replica set>` and
:term:`sharded clusters <sharded cluster>`. 

To maintain cluster availability:

- |service| removes one node from the cluster at a time
  starting with a :term:`secondary <secondary>`.

- More than one node can go down at a time, but |service| always keeps 
  a majority of the nodes online.

To learn more about rebuilding indexes, see :manual:`Build Indexes on
Replica Sets </tutorial/build-indexes-on-replica-sets>`.

.. note::

   The following index options are incompatible with building indexes in
   a rolling fashion:

   * :manual:`unique
     </reference/method/db.collection.createIndex#options-for-all-index-types>`

   * :manual:`storageEngine
     </reference/method/db.collection.createIndex#options-for-all-index-types>`

   * :manual:`textIndexVersion
     </reference/method/db.collection.createIndex#options-for-text-indexes>`

   * :manual:`2dsphereIndexVersion
     </reference/method/db.collection.createIndex#options-for-2d-indexes>`

   If you specify any of these options in the :guilabel:`Options` pane, 
   |service| rejects your configuration with an error message.

Commit message:

DOCSP-20403 Prevent restart loop due to failing rolling index builds … (#3050)
* DOCSP-20403 Prevent restart loop due to failing rolling index builds feature work

* Describe rolling index build behavior

* Phrasing changes - use active voice

* Rephrasing

* Add missing space

* Apply suggestions from copy review

Co-authored-by: Melissa Mahoney <melissa.mahoney@mongodb.com>

Co-authored-by: Melissa Mahoney <melissa.mahoney@mongodb.com>

source/includes/fact-index-rolling-build.rst, after:

.. important::

   Rolling index builds succeed only when they meet certain conditions. 
   To ensure your index build succeeds, avoid the following design 
   patterns that commonly trigger a restart loop:

   - Index key exceeds the :manual:`index key limit 
     </reference/limits/#mongodb-limit-Index-Key-Limit>`
   - :manual:`Index name </indexes/#index-names>` already exists
   - Index on :manual:`more than one array field 
     </core/index-multikey/#compound-multikey-indexes>`
   - Index on collection that has the 
     :manual:`maximum number of text indexes 
     </reference/limits/#mongodb-limit-Number-of-Indexes-per-Collection>`
   - Text index on collection that has the
     :manual:`maximum number of text indexes 
     </core/index-text/#one-text-index-per-collection>`

.. note::

   Data Explorer does not support building indexes with a rolling build
   for ``M0`` {+free-clusters+} and ``M2/M5`` {+shared-clusters+}. You 
   can't build indexes with a rolling build for 
   {+serverless-instances+}.

Building indexes in a rolling fashion reduces the performance impact of
building indexes on :term:`replica sets <replica set>` and
:term:`sharded clusters <sharded cluster>`. 

To maintain cluster availability:

- |service| removes one node from the cluster at a time
  starting with a :term:`secondary <secondary>`.

- More than one node can go down at a time, but |service| always keeps 
  a majority of the nodes online.

|service| automatically cancels rolling index builds 
that do not succeed on all nodes. When a rolling index build completes 
on some nodes, but fails on others, |service| cancels the build
and removes the index from any nodes that it was successfully built on. 

In the event of a rolling index build cancellation,
|service| generates an :ref:`activity feed event <view-activity-feed>`
and sends a notification email to the project owner 
with the following information:

- Name of the cluster on which the rolling index build failed
- Namespace on which the rolling index build failed
- Project containing the cluster and namespace
- Organization containing the project
- Link to the :ref:`activity feed event <view-activity-feed>`

To learn more about rebuilding indexes, see :manual:`Build Indexes on
Replica Sets </tutorial/build-indexes-on-replica-sets>`.

.. note::

   The following index options are incompatible with building indexes in
   a rolling fashion:

   * :manual:`unique
     </reference/method/db.collection.createIndex#options-for-all-index-types>`

   * :manual:`storageEngine
     </reference/method/db.collection.createIndex#options-for-all-index-types>`

   * :manual:`textIndexVersion
     </reference/method/db.collection.createIndex#options-for-text-indexes>`

   * :manual:`2dsphereIndexVersion
     </reference/method/db.collection.createIndex#options-for-2d-indexes>`

   If you specify any of these options in the :guilabel:`Options` pane, 
   |service| rejects your configuration with an error message.
