source/includes/fact-platforms.rst, before:

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1
   :stub-columns: 1
   :class: compatibility

   * - Platform
     - 3.0
     - 2.6
     - 2.4
     - 2.2
   * - Amazon Linux
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
   * - Debian 7
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
   * - Fedora 8+
     -
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
   * - RHEL/CentOS 6.2+
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
   * - RHEL/CentOS 7.0+
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     -
     -
   * - SLES 11+
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
   * - Solaris 11 64-bit
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
   * - Ubuntu 12.04
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
   * - Ubuntu 14.04
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     -
     -
   * - Microsoft Azure
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
   * - Windows Vista/Server 2008R2/2012+
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
   * - macOS 10.8 and later
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     -

Commit message:

DOCS-5096: 32-bit warnings, Solaris/WT note

source/includes/fact-platforms.rst, after:

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1
   :stub-columns: 1
   :class: compatibility

   * - Platform
     - 3.0
     - 2.6
     - 2.4
     - 2.2
   * - Amazon Linux
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
   * - Debian 7
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
   * - Fedora 8+
     -
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
   * - RHEL/CentOS 6.2+
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
   * - RHEL/CentOS 7.0+
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     -
     -
   * - SLES 11+
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
   * - Solaris 11 64-bit
     - :ref:`MMAPv1<storage-mmapv1>`-only
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
   * - Ubuntu 12.04
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
   * - Ubuntu 14.04
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     -
     -
   * - Microsoft Azure
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
   * - Windows Vista/Server 2008R2/2012+
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
   * - macOS 10.8 and later
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     -

.. note::
   The MongoDB distribution for Solaris does not include support
   for the :ref:`WiredTiger storage engine <storage-wiredtiger>`.
