source/includes/fact-platform-support-enterprise-red-hat.rst, before:

.. note:: EOL Notice

   - MongoDB 5.0 Enterprise Edition removes support for
     :abbr:`RHEL (Red Hat Enterprise Linux)` / CentOS / Oracle 6 on
     :ref:`x86_64 <prod-notes-supported-platforms-x86_64>`

   - MongoDB 5.0 Enterprise Edition removes support for
     :abbr:`RHEL (Red Hat Enterprise Linux)` / CentOS / Oracle 7 on
     :ref:`PPC64LE<prod-notes-supported-platforms-PPC64LE>`

   - MongoDB 5.0 Enterprise Edition removes support for
     :abbr:`RHEL (Red Hat Enterprise Linux)` / CentOS / Oracle 7 on
     :ref:`s390x <prod-notes-supported-platforms-s390x>`

MongoDB {+version+} Enterprise Edition supports the following
:red:`64-bit` versions of Red Hat Enterprise Linux (RHEL), CentOS Linux,
and Oracle Linux [#oracle-linux]_ on 
:ref:`x86_64 <prod-notes-supported-platforms-x86_64>` architecture:

- :abbr:`RHEL (Red Hat Enterprise Linux)` / CentOS / Oracle 8

- :abbr:`RHEL (Red Hat Enterprise Linux)` / CentOS / Oracle 7

- :abbr:`RHEL (Red Hat Enterprise Linux)` / CentOS / Oracle 6

MongoDB only supports the 64-bit versions of these platforms.

MongoDB {+version+} Enterprise Edition on
:abbr:`RHEL (Red Hat Enterprise Linux)` / CentOS / Oracle also supports
the :ref:`ARM64 <prod-notes-supported-platforms-ARM64>` architecture on
select platforms.

See :ref:`prod-notes-supported-platforms` for more information.

.. [#oracle-linux]

   MongoDB only supports Oracle Linux running the Red Hat Compatible
   Kernel (RHCK). MongoDB does **not** support the Unbreakable
   Enterprise Kernel (UEK).

.. include:: /includes/admonition-wsl.rst

Commit message:

DOCS-15112 remove RHEL 7 Support (#641)
* DOCS-15112 remove RHEL 7 Support

* Add 4.0-5.0 support warning

* move warning to EOL notice

* removed

* removed 2

* comp table update

* CR 2 Updates

* update ppc64 table

* Update fact-platform-support-enterprise-red-hat.rst

* Update fact-platform-support-enterprise-red-hat.rst

source/includes/fact-platform-support-enterprise-red-hat.rst, after:

.. note:: EOL Notice

   - MongoDB 5.0 Enterprise Edition removes support for
     :abbr:`RHEL (Red Hat Enterprise Linux)` / CentOS / Oracle 6 on
     :ref:`x86_64 <prod-notes-supported-platforms-x86_64>`

   - MongoDB Enterprise Edition removed support for 
     :abbr:`RHEL (Red Hat Enterprise Linux)` 7 / CentOS / Oracle 
     :ref:`PPC64LE<prod-notes-supported-platforms-PPC64LE>` 
     between versions 4.0 and 5.0. However, these 
     architectures are supported for 5.0.X versions.

MongoDB {+version+} Enterprise Edition supports the following
:red:`64-bit` versions of Red Hat Enterprise Linux (RHEL), CentOS Linux,
and Oracle Linux [#oracle-linux]_ on 
:ref:`x86_64 <prod-notes-supported-platforms-x86_64>` architecture:

- :abbr:`RHEL (Red Hat Enterprise Linux)` / CentOS / Oracle 8

- :abbr:`RHEL (Red Hat Enterprise Linux)` / CentOS / Oracle 7

MongoDB only supports the 64-bit versions of these platforms.

MongoDB {+version+} Enterprise Edition on
:abbr:`RHEL (Red Hat Enterprise Linux)` / CentOS / Oracle also supports
the :ref:`ARM64 <prod-notes-supported-platforms-ARM64>` architecture on
select platforms.

See :ref:`prod-notes-supported-platforms` for more information.

.. [#oracle-linux]

   MongoDB only supports Oracle Linux running the Red Hat Compatible
   Kernel (RHCK). MongoDB does **not** support the Unbreakable
   Enterprise Kernel (UEK).

.. include:: /includes/admonition-wsl.rst
