source/includes/fact-platform-support-red-hat.rst, before:

.. note:: EOL Notice

   - MongoDB 5.0 Community Edition removes support for
     :abbr:`RHEL (Red Hat Enterprise Linux)` / CentOS / Oracle 6 on
     :ref:`x86_64 <prod-notes-supported-platforms-x86_64>`

   - MongoDB 5.0 Community Edition removes support for
     :abbr:`RHEL (Red Hat Enterprise Linux)` / CentOS / Oracle 7 on
     :ref:`s390x <prod-notes-supported-platforms-s390x>`

MongoDB {+version+} Community Edition supports the following
:red:`64-bit` versions of Red Hat Enterprise Linux (RHEL), CentOS Linux,
and Oracle Linux [#oracle-linux]_ on 
:ref:`x86_64 <prod-notes-supported-platforms-x86_64>` architecture:

- :abbr:`RHEL (Red Hat Enterprise Linux)` / CentOS / Oracle 8

- :abbr:`RHEL (Red Hat Enterprise Linux)` / CentOS / Oracle 7

- :abbr:`RHEL (Red Hat Enterprise Linux)` / CentOS / Oracle 6

MongoDB only supports the 64-bit versions of these platforms.

MongoDB {+version+} Community Edition on
:abbr:`RHEL (Red Hat Enterprise Linux)` / CentOS / Oracle also supports
the :ref:`ARM64 <prod-notes-supported-platforms-ARM64>` architecture on
select platforms.

See :ref:`prod-notes-supported-platforms` for more information.

.. [#oracle-linux]

   MongoDB only supports Oracle Linux running the Red Hat Compatible
   Kernel (RHCK). MongoDB does **not** support the Unbreakable
   Enterprise Kernel (UEK).

.. include:: /includes/admonition-wsl.rst

Commit message:

DOCS-15162 Rocky Alma PS Server Updates (#1163)
* DOCS-15162 server updates

* update

* change footnote symbol

* edit

* add

* add community edition notes

* amend

* footnote adjustments

* feedback

* fix includes

* fix

* revert

* fix2

* *

* fix footnote

* CR2 Edits

* *

* update AlmaLinux

* update

* update 2

source/includes/fact-platform-support-red-hat.rst, after:

.. note:: EOL Notice

   - MongoDB 5.0 Community Edition removes support for
     :abbr:`RHEL (Red Hat Enterprise Linux)` / CentOS / Oracle 6 on
     :ref:`x86_64 <prod-notes-supported-platforms-x86_64>`

   - MongoDB 5.0 Community Edition removes support for
     :abbr:`RHEL (Red Hat Enterprise Linux)` / CentOS / Oracle 7 on
     :ref:`s390x <prod-notes-supported-platforms-s390x>`

MongoDB {+version+} Community Edition supports the following
:red:`64-bit` versions of Red Hat Enterprise Linux (RHEL), CentOS Linux,
Oracle Linux [#oracle-linux]_, Rocky Linux, and AlmaLinux 
[#rocky-alma-note]_
on :ref:`x86_64 <prod-notes-supported-platforms-x86_64>` architecture:

- :abbr:`RHEL (Red Hat Enterprise Linux)` / CentOS / Oracle / Rocky / Alma 8

- :abbr:`RHEL (Red Hat Enterprise Linux)` / CentOS / Oracle 7

- :abbr:`RHEL (Red Hat Enterprise Linux)` / CentOS / Oracle 6

MongoDB only supports the 64-bit versions of these platforms.

MongoDB {+version+} Community Edition on
:abbr:`RHEL (Red Hat Enterprise Linux)` / CentOS / Oracle / Rocky / Alma  
also supports the :ref:`ARM64 <prod-notes-supported-platforms-ARM64>` architecture on
select platforms.

See :ref:`prod-notes-supported-platforms` for more information.

.. [#oracle-linux]

   MongoDB only supports Oracle Linux running the Red Hat Compatible
   Kernel (RHCK). MongoDB does **not** support the Unbreakable
   Enterprise Kernel (UEK).

.. [#rocky-alma-note]

   MongoDB on-premises products released for RHEL version 8.0+ are 
   compatible with and supported on Rocky Linux version 8.0+ and 
   AlmaLinux version 8.0+, contingent upon those distributions meeting their 
   obligation to deliver full RHEL compatibility.

.. include:: /includes/admonition-wsl.rst
