source/includes/fact-aws-kms-prereqs.rst, before:

To enable customer-managed keys with |aws| |kms| for a MongoDB
project, you must:

- Have an |aws| customer master key (|cmk|).
  To learn how to create a key, see
  :aws:`Creating Keys </kms/latest/developerguide/create-keys.html>`
  in the |aws| documentation.

- Have an |aws| |iam| user with sufficient privileges. |service| must
  have permission to perform the following actions with your key:

  - :aws:`DescribeKey </kms/latest/APIReference/API_DescribeKey.html>`

  - :aws:`Encrypt </kms/latest/APIReference/API_Encrypt.html>`

  - :aws:`Decrypt </kms/latest/APIReference/API_Decrypt.html>`

  .. note::

     If you wish to use the AWS CMK with an AWS IAM user from a different
     AWS account instead of the IAM user who created the AWS CMK, ensure you have
     sufficient privileges:

     - Add a key policy statement under the AWS CMK to include the external
       AWS account.

     - Add an IAM inline policy for the IAM user in the external AWS account.

     For a comprehensive discussion of IAM roles and customer master keys, see
     the `AWS documentation
     <https://docs.aws.amazon.com/kms/latest/developerguide/key-policy-modifying-external-accounts.html>`__.

     After confirming the above privileges, you can follow the usual steps to
     configure the KMS settings in |service|, with the following exception:
     
     - You must provide the full |arn| for
       the |cmk| (e.g. ``arn:aws:kms:eu-west-2:111122223333:key/12345678-1234-1234-1234-12345678``)
       instead of the master key ID (e.g. ``12345678-1234-1234-1234-12345678``)
       in the |cmk| ID field.

  To learn how to create an |iam| user, see
  :aws:`IAM Users </IAM/latest/UserGuide/id_users.html>`
  in the |aws| documentation.

  |service| uses the same |iam| user credentials and |cmk| settings for
  all clusters in a project for which Encryption at Rest is enabled.

Commit message:

(DOCSP-11949): add atlas IPs for kms/webhook firewall configuration (#1874)
* (DOCSP-11949): add atlas IPs for kms/webhook firewall configuration

* (DOCSP-11949): fix duplicate link ref

* (DOCSP-11949): fix duplicate link ref attempt 2

* (DOCSP-11949): tech review feedback

* (DOCSP-11949): tech review feedback pt 2

source/includes/fact-aws-kms-prereqs.rst, after:

.. include:: /includes/fact-kms-prereqs.rst

- Have an |aws| customer master key (|cmk|).
  To learn how to create a key, see
  :aws:`Creating Keys </kms/latest/developerguide/create-keys.html>`
  in the |aws| documentation.

- Have an |aws| |iam| user with sufficient privileges. |service| must
  have permission to perform the following actions with your key:

  - :aws:`DescribeKey </kms/latest/APIReference/API_DescribeKey.html>`

  - :aws:`Encrypt </kms/latest/APIReference/API_Encrypt.html>`

  - :aws:`Decrypt </kms/latest/APIReference/API_Decrypt.html>`

  .. note::

     If you wish to use the AWS CMK with an AWS IAM user from a different
     AWS account instead of the IAM user who created the AWS CMK, ensure you have
     sufficient privileges:

     - Add a key policy statement under the AWS CMK to include the external
       AWS account.

     - Add an IAM inline policy for the IAM user in the external AWS account.

     For a comprehensive discussion of IAM roles and customer master keys, see
     the `AWS documentation
     <https://docs.aws.amazon.com/kms/latest/developerguide/key-policy-modifying-external-accounts.html>`__.

     After confirming the above privileges, you can follow the usual steps to
     configure the KMS settings in |service|, with the following exception:
     
     - You must provide the full |arn| for
       the |cmk| (e.g. ``arn:aws:kms:eu-west-2:111122223333:key/12345678-1234-1234-1234-12345678``)
       instead of the master key ID (e.g. ``12345678-1234-1234-1234-12345678``)
       in the |cmk| ID field.

  To learn how to create an |iam| user, see
  :aws:`IAM Users </IAM/latest/UserGuide/id_users.html>`
  in the |aws| documentation.

  |service| uses the same |iam| user credentials and |cmk| settings for
  all clusters in a project for which Encryption at Rest is enabled.

- If your |aws| |kms| configuration requires it, :aws:`allow
  access </kms/latest/developerguide/policy-conditions.html#conditions-aws-ip-address>` 
  from :ref:`Atlas IP addresses <atlas-add-inbound-ips>` so that
  |service| can communicate with your |kms|.
