source/includes/fact-default-bind-ip.rst, before:

Starting in MongoDB 3.6, MongoDB binaries, :program:`mongod` and
:program:`mongos`, bind to localhost (``127.0.0.1``) by default. If the
:setting:`net.ipv6` configuration file setting or the ``--ipv6``
command line option is set for the binary, the binary additionally binds
to the IPv6 address ``::1``.

Previously, starting from MongoDB 2.6, only the binaries from the
official MongoDB RPM (Red Hat, CentOS, Fedora Linux, and derivatives)
and DEB (Debian, Ubuntu, and derivatives) packages bind to localhost by
default.

When bound only to the localhost, these MongoDB 3.6 binaries can only
accept connections from clients (including the :program:`mongo` shell,
other members in your deployment for replica sets and sharded clusters)
that are running on the same machine. Remote clients cannot connect to
the binaries bound only to localhost.

To override and bind to other ip addresses, you can use the
:setting:`net.bindIp` configuration file setting or the
:option:`--bind_ip` command-line option to specify a list of ip
addresses.

.. include:: /includes/warning-bind-ip-security-considerations.rst

For example, the following :program:`mongod` instance binds to both the
localhost and the sample ip address ``198.51.100.1``:

.. code-block:: none

   mongod --bind_ip localhost,198.51.100.1

In order to connect to this instance, remote clients must specify the
ip address ``198.51.100.1`` or the hostname associated with the ip
address:

.. code-block:: none

   mongo --host 198.51.100.1

   mongo --host My-Example-Associated-Hostname

Commit message:

DOCS-6220: program options -- commit in conjunction with docstools commit

source/includes/fact-default-bind-ip.rst, after:

Starting in MongoDB 3.6, MongoDB binaries, :binary:`~bin.mongod` and
:binary:`~bin.mongos`, bind to localhost (``127.0.0.1``) by default. If the
:setting:`net.ipv6` configuration file setting or the ``--ipv6``
command line option is set for the binary, the binary additionally binds
to the IPv6 address ``::1``.

Previously, starting from MongoDB 2.6, only the binaries from the
official MongoDB RPM (Red Hat, CentOS, Fedora Linux, and derivatives)
and DEB (Debian, Ubuntu, and derivatives) packages bind to localhost by
default.

When bound only to the localhost, these MongoDB 3.6 binaries can only
accept connections from clients (including the :binary:`~bin.mongo` shell,
other members in your deployment for replica sets and sharded clusters)
that are running on the same machine. Remote clients cannot connect to
the binaries bound only to localhost.

To override and bind to other ip addresses, you can use the
:setting:`net.bindIp` configuration file setting or the
:option:`--bind_ip` command-line option to specify a list of ip
addresses.

.. include:: /includes/warning-bind-ip-security-considerations.rst

For example, the following :binary:`~bin.mongod` instance binds to both the
localhost and the sample ip address ``198.51.100.1``:

.. code-block:: none

   mongod --bind_ip localhost,198.51.100.1

In order to connect to this instance, remote clients must specify the
ip address ``198.51.100.1`` or the hostname associated with the ip
address:

.. code-block:: none

   mongo --host 198.51.100.1

   mongo --host My-Example-Associated-Hostname
