source/includes/language-compatibility-table-csharp.rst, before:


.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1
   :stub-columns: 1
   :class: compatibility-large no-padding

   * - C#/.NET Driver Version
     - .NET 5/6 [#atlas-connection]_
     - .NET Core 3.1
     - .NET Core 3.0
     - .NET Core 2.2
     - .NET Core 2.1
     - .NET Core 2.0
     - .NET Core 1.1
     - .NET Core 1.0
     - .NET 4.8
     - .NET 4.7 [#2.14-note]_
     - .NET 4.6
     - .NET 4.5 [#4.5.2]_

   * - 2.14
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     -
     -
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     -
     -


   * - 2.13
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|

   * - 2.12
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|

   * - 2.11
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|

   * - 2.10
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|


   * - 2.9
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|

   * - 2.8
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|

   * - 2.7
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|

   * - 2.6
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|

   * - 2.5
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|


   * - 2.4
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|

   * - 2.3
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|

   * - 2.2
     -
     -
     -
     -
     -
     -
     -
     -
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|

   * - 2.0
     -
     -
     -
     -
     -
     -
     -
     -
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|

Versions 1.10 and 1.11 of the driver are compatible with .NET 3.5
through 4.8 only.

.. [#atlas-connection] When using .NET 5/6, you can't connect to Atlas clusters running MongoDB 4.0 due to a certificate issue. This does not impact clusters running MongoDB 4.2+.

.. [#2.14-note] .NET/C# driver version 2.14 requires .NET Framework 4.7.2 or higher.

.. [#4.5.2] .NET/C# driver versions 2.8 to 2.13 requires .NET Framework 4.5.2 or higher.

Commit message:

Docsp 21305 (#800)
* bump version and update compat tables

* edit

source/includes/language-compatibility-table-csharp.rst, after:


.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1
   :stub-columns: 1
   :class: compatibility-large no-padding

   * - C#/.NET Driver Version
     - .NET 5/6 [#atlas-connection]_
     - .NET Core 3.1
     - .NET Core 3.0
     - .NET Core 2.2
     - .NET Core 2.1
     - .NET Core 2.0
     - .NET Core 1.1
     - .NET Core 1.0
     - .NET 4.8
     - .NET 4.7 [#2.14-note]_
     - .NET 4.6
     - .NET 4.5 [#4.5.2]_

   * - 2.15
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     -
     -
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     -
     -

   * - 2.14
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     -
     -
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     -
     -


   * - 2.13
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|

   * - 2.12
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|

   * - 2.11
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|

   * - 2.10
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|


   * - 2.9
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|

   * - 2.8
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|

   * - 2.7
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|

   * - 2.6
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|

   * - 2.5
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|


   * - 2.4
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|

   * - 2.3
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|

   * - 2.2
     -
     -
     -
     -
     -
     -
     -
     -
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|

   * - 2.0
     -
     -
     -
     -
     -
     -
     -
     -
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|
     - |checkmark|

Versions 1.10 and 1.11 of the driver are compatible with .NET 3.5
through 4.8 only.

.. [#atlas-connection] When using .NET 5/6, you can't connect to Atlas clusters running MongoDB 4.0 due to a certificate issue. This does not impact clusters running MongoDB 4.2+.

.. [#2.14-note] .NET/C# driver versions 2.14 or later requires .NET Framework 4.7.2 or
   later.

.. [#4.5.2] .NET/C# driver versions 2.8 to 2.13 requires .NET Framework 4.5.2 or later.
