source/includes/list-table-shell-properties.rst, before:

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1
   :widths: 25 13 14 47

   * - Key
     - Type
     - Default
     - Description

   * - ``disableLogging``
     - boolean
     - ``false``
     - Specifies whether |mdb-shell| writes log entries.

   * - ``displayBatchSize``
     - integer
     - 20
     - The number of items displayed per cursor iteration

   * - ``enableTelemetry``
     - boolean
     - ``true``
     - Enables sending anonymized tracking and diagnostic data to
       MongoDB. 

   * - ``editor``
     - string
     - ``null``
     - Designates an editor to use within the :binary:`~bin.mongosh`
       console. Overrides the ``EDITOR`` environment variable if set.

   * - ``forceDisableTelemetry``
     - boolean
     - ``false``
     - Only available in the global configuration file. When true,
       users cannot enable telemetry manually.

   * - ``historyLength``
     - integer
     - 1000
     - The number of items to store in :binary:`~bin.mongosh` REPL's
       history file.

   * - ``inspectCompact``
     - integer or boolean
     - 3
     - The level of inner elements that :binary:`~bin.mongosh` outputs
       on a single line. Short array elements are also grouped together
       on a single line.
       
       If set to ``false``, :binary:`~bin.mongosh` outputs each field
       on its own line.

   * - ``inspectDepth``
     - integer or Infinity
     - 6
     - The depth to which objects are printed. Setting ``inspectDepth``
       to ``Infinity`` (the javascript object) prints all nested
       objects to their full depth. 
   
   * - ``logCompressionEnabled``
     - boolean
     - false
     - Specifies whether |mdb-shell| compresses log files. When this
       value is ``true``, |mdb-shell| uses gzip to compress logs. See
       :ref:`mongosh-log-compression`.

   * - ``logLocation``
     - string
     - Depends on your operating system. See :ref:`mdb-shell-view-logs`.
     - Directory where MongoDB Shell writes log files. Specify an
       absolute filepath. See :ref:`mongosh-log-location`.

   * - ``logMaxFileCount``
     - integer or Infinity
     - 100
     - Maximum number of log files that the |mdb-shell| retains. After
       the |mdb-shell| reaches the maximum log file count, it starts
       deleting the oldest log files until the count is below the
       threshold. See :ref:`mongosh-log-file-count`.

   * - ``logRetentionDays``
     - integer or Infinity
     - 30
     - Number of days that |mdb-shell| log files are retained. If this
       value is set to ``Infinity``, log files are not deleted based on
       age. To prevent log storage from growing too large, always
       specify at least one log retention criterion. See
       :ref:`mongosh-logs-retention`.

   * - ``logRetentionGB``
     - float or Infinity
     - Unset
     - Maximum amount of space in gigabytes used for |mdb-shell| logs.
       If the combined size of |mdb-shell| logs exceeds this value, log
       files are deleted starting with the oldest logs.

       If this value is set to ``Infinity``, log files are not deleted
       based on storage size. To prevent log storage from growing too
       large, always specify at least one log retention criterion. See
       :ref:`mongosh-logs-retention`.

   * - ``redactHistory``
     - string
     - ``remove``
     - Controls what information is recorded in the shell history.
       Must be one of:

       - ``keep``: Retain all history.
       - ``remove``: Remove lines which contain sensitive information.
       - ``remove-redact``: Redact sensitive information.

   * - ``showStackTraces``
     - boolean
     - ``false``
     - Controls display of a stack trace along with error messages.

   * - ``snippetAutoload``
     - boolean
     - ``true``
     - If ``true``, automatically load installed
       :ref:`snippets <snip-overview>` at startup.

   * - ``snippetIndexSourceURLs``
     - string
     - `MongoDB Repository
       <https://compass.mongodb.com/mongosh/snippets-index.bson.br>`__
     - A semicolon-separated list of URLs that link to a
       :ref:`snippet <snip-overview>` registry.

   * - ``snippetRegistryURL``
     - string
     - `npm Registry <https://registry.npmjs.org>`__
     - The npm registry used by the :binary:`~bin.mongosh` npm client
       that installs :ref:`snippet <snip-overview>`.

Commit message:

DOCSP-48522-update-mongosh-history-log-description (#394)
* DOCSP-48522-update-mongosh-history-log-description

* typo

* reviewer updates

* nit

source/includes/list-table-shell-properties.rst, after:

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1
   :widths: 25 13 14 47

   * - Key
     - Type
     - Default
     - Description

   * - ``disableLogging``
     - boolean
     - ``false``
     - Specifies whether |mdb-shell| writes log entries.

   * - ``displayBatchSize``
     - integer
     - 20
     - The number of items displayed per cursor iteration

   * - ``enableTelemetry``
     - boolean
     - ``true``
     - Enables sending anonymized tracking and diagnostic data to
       MongoDB. 

   * - ``editor``
     - string
     - ``null``
     - Designates an editor to use within the :binary:`~bin.mongosh`
       console. Overrides the ``EDITOR`` environment variable if set.

   * - ``forceDisableTelemetry``
     - boolean
     - ``false``
     - Only available in the global configuration file. When true,
       users cannot enable telemetry manually.

   * - ``historyLength``
     - integer
     - 1000
     - The number of items to store in :binary:`~bin.mongosh` REPL's
       history file.

   * - ``inspectCompact``
     - integer or boolean
     - 3
     - The level of inner elements that :binary:`~bin.mongosh` outputs
       on a single line. Short array elements are also grouped together
       on a single line.
       
       If set to ``false``, :binary:`~bin.mongosh` outputs each field
       on its own line.

   * - ``inspectDepth``
     - integer or Infinity
     - 6
     - The depth to which objects are printed. Setting ``inspectDepth``
       to ``Infinity`` (the javascript object) prints all nested
       objects to their full depth. 
   
   * - ``logCompressionEnabled``
     - boolean
     - false
     - Specifies whether |mdb-shell| compresses log files. When this
       value is ``true``, |mdb-shell| uses gzip to compress logs. See
       :ref:`mongosh-log-compression`.

   * - ``logLocation``
     - string
     - Depends on your operating system. See :ref:`mdb-shell-view-logs`.
     - Directory where MongoDB Shell writes log files. Specify an
       absolute filepath. See :ref:`mongosh-log-location`.

   * - ``logMaxFileCount``
     - integer or Infinity
     - 100
     - Maximum number of log files that the |mdb-shell| retains. After
       the |mdb-shell| reaches the maximum log file count, it starts
       deleting the oldest log files until the count is below the
       threshold. See :ref:`mongosh-log-file-count`.

   * - ``logRetentionDays``
     - integer or Infinity
     - 30
     - Number of days that |mdb-shell| log files are retained. If this
       value is set to ``Infinity``, log files are not deleted based on
       age. To prevent log storage from growing too large, always
       specify at least one log retention criterion. See
       :ref:`mongosh-logs-retention`.

   * - ``logRetentionGB``
     - float or Infinity
     - Unset
     - Maximum amount of space in gigabytes used for |mdb-shell| logs.
       If the combined size of |mdb-shell| logs exceeds this value, log
       files are deleted starting with the oldest logs.

       If this value is set to ``Infinity``, log files are not deleted
       based on storage size. To prevent log storage from growing too
       large, always specify at least one log retention criterion. See
       :ref:`mongosh-logs-retention`.

   * - ``redactHistory``
     - string
     - ``remove``
     - Controls what information is recorded in the ``mongosh`` command history.
       You can access the ``mongosh`` command history via the up and down keys 
       or Ctrl+R while inside the shell.

       Must be one of the following values:

       - ``keep``: Retain all history.
       - ``remove``: Remove lines that contain sensitive commands from the history. 
         For example, ``remove`` removes calls to db.auth() or connect().
       - ``remove-redact``: Remove lines that contain sensitive commands and redact 
         specific strings in other history lines, such as file paths, email addresses, and URLs. 

   * - ``showStackTraces``
     - boolean
     - ``false``
     - Controls display of a stack trace along with error messages.

   * - ``snippetAutoload``
     - boolean
     - ``true``
     - If ``true``, automatically load installed
       :ref:`snippets <snip-overview>` at startup.

   * - ``snippetIndexSourceURLs``
     - string
     - `MongoDB Repository
       <https://compass.mongodb.com/mongosh/snippets-index.bson.br>`__
     - A semicolon-separated list of URLs that link to a
       :ref:`snippet <snip-overview>` registry.

   * - ``snippetRegistryURL``
     - string
     - `npm Registry <https://registry.npmjs.org>`__
     - The npm registry used by the :binary:`~bin.mongosh` npm client
       that installs :ref:`snippet <snip-overview>`.
