source/includes/list-table-alert-notification-methods.rst, before:

.. list-table::
   :widths: 35 65
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Notification Option

     - Description

   * - .. only:: cloud

          Group

       .. only:: onprem

          Group *(group or global alerts only)*

     - Sends the alert by email or SMS to the group. If you select
       :guilabel:`SMS`, |mms| sends the text message to the number
       configured on each user's :ref:`Account page <profile-page>`. To
       send only to specific roles, deselect :guilabel:`All Roles` and
       select the desired roles.

   * - |mms| User

     - Sends the alert by email or SMS to a specified |mms| user. If you
       select :guilabel:`SMS`, |mms| sends the text message to the number
       configured on the user's :ref:`Account page <profile-page>`.

   * - .. only:: onprem

          SNMP Host

     - .. only:: onprem

          Specify the hostname that will receive the v2c trap on standard
          port ``162``. The MIB file for SNMP is `available for download here
          <http://downloads.mongodb.com/on-prem-monitoring/MMS-10GEN-MIB.txt>`_.

   * - Email

     - Sends the alert to a specified email address.

   * - .. only:: cloud

          SMS

     - .. only:: cloud

          Sends the alert to a specified mobile number. |mms| removes all
          punctuation and letters and uses only the digits. If you are
          outside of the United States or Canada, include '011' and the
          country code. For example, for New Zealand enter '01164' before
          the phone number. As an alternative, use a Google Voice number.
          |mms| uses the U.S.-based `Twilio <https://www.twilio.com>`_ to
          send SMS messages.

   * - HipChat

     - Sends the alert to a HipChat room message stream. Enter the HipChat
       room name and API token.

   * - Slack

     - Sends the alert to a Slack channel. Enter the channel name and either an API
       token or a Bot token. To create an API token, see the `<https://api.slack.com/web>`_
       page in your Slack account. For information on Bot users in Slack,
       see `<https://api.slack.com/bot-users>`_.

   * - Flowdock

     - Sends the alert to a Flowdock account. Enter the following:

       - :guilabel:`Org Name`: The Flowdock organization name in
         lower-case letters. This is the name that appears after
         ``www.flowdock.com/app/`` in the URL string.

       - :guilabel:`Flow Name`: The flow name in lower-case letters. The
         flow name appears after the org name in the URL string:
         ``www.flowdock.com/app/orgname/flowname``.

       - :guilabel:`User API Token`: Your Flowdock "personal API token"
         found on the `<https://www.flowdock.com/account/tokens>`_ page of
         your Flowdock account.

   * - PagerDuty

     - Sends the alert to a `PagerDuty
       <http://www.pagerduty.com/?utm_source=mongodb&utm_medium=docs&utm_campaign=partner>`_
       account. Enter only the PagerDuty service key. Define escalation rules
       and alert assignments directly in PagerDuty.

       This option is available only for alerts that require acknowledgement.
       Informational alerts, such as the alert that a replica set has elected
       a new primary, cannot use this notification method.

       Users can acknowledge PagerDuty alerts only from the PagerDuty
       dashboard.

   * - .. only:: cloud

          Webhook

       .. only:: onprem

          Webhook *(group alerts only)*

     - Sends an HTTP POST request to an endpoint for programmatic
       processing. The request body contains a JSON document that uses
       the same format as the Public API's :doc:`Alerts resource
       </reference/api/alerts>`. This option is available only if you
       have configured Webhook settings on the :ref:`Group Settings
       <group-settings-page>` page.

   * - .. only:: onprem

          Administrators *(global or system alerts only)*

     - .. only:: onprem

          Sends the alert to the email address specified in the
          :guilabel:`Admin Email Address` field in the |onprem|
          :doc:`configuration options </reference/configuration>`.

   * - .. only:: onprem

          Global Alerts Summary Email *(global alerts only)*

     - .. only:: onprem

          Sends a summary email of all global alerts to the specified email address.

Commit message:

SMS is available if Twilio is set up

source/includes/list-table-alert-notification-methods.rst, after:

.. list-table::
   :widths: 35 65
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Notification Option

     - Description

   * - .. only:: cloud

          Group

       .. only:: onprem

          Group *(group or global alerts only)*

     - Sends the alert by email or SMS to the group. If you select
       :guilabel:`SMS`, |mms| sends the text message to the number
       configured on each user's :ref:`Account page <profile-page>`. To
       send only to specific roles, deselect :guilabel:`All Roles` and
       select the desired roles.

   * - |mms| User

     - Sends the alert by email or SMS to a specified |mms| user. If you
       select :guilabel:`SMS`, |mms| sends the text message to the number
       configured on the user's :ref:`Account page <profile-page>`.

   * - .. only:: onprem

          SNMP Host

     - .. only:: onprem

          Specify the hostname that will receive the v2c trap on standard
          port ``162``. The MIB file for SNMP is `available for download here
          <http://downloads.mongodb.com/on-prem-monitoring/MMS-10GEN-MIB.txt>`_.

   * - Email

     - Sends the alert to a specified email address.

   * - SMS

     - Sends the alert to a specified mobile number.

       .. only:: cloud

          |mms| removes all
          punctuation and letters and uses only the digits. If you are
          outside of the United States or Canada, include '011' and the
          country code. For example, for New Zealand enter '01164' before
          the phone number. As an alternative, use a Google Voice number.
          |mms| uses the U.S.-based `Twilio <https://www.twilio.com>`_ to
          send SMS messages.

       .. only:: onprem

          Available only if |onprem| is configured for :ref:`Twilio
          integration <twilio-sms-alert-settings>`.

   * - HipChat

     - Sends the alert to a HipChat room message stream. Enter the HipChat
       room name and API token.

   * - Slack

     - Sends the alert to a Slack channel. Enter the channel name and either an API
       token or a Bot token. To create an API token, see the `<https://api.slack.com/web>`_
       page in your Slack account. For information on Bot users in Slack,
       see `<https://api.slack.com/bot-users>`_.

   * - Flowdock

     - Sends the alert to a Flowdock account. Enter the following:

       - :guilabel:`Org Name`: The Flowdock organization name in
         lower-case letters. This is the name that appears after
         ``www.flowdock.com/app/`` in the URL string.

       - :guilabel:`Flow Name`: The flow name in lower-case letters. The
         flow name appears after the org name in the URL string:
         ``www.flowdock.com/app/orgname/flowname``.

       - :guilabel:`User API Token`: Your Flowdock "personal API token"
         found on the `<https://www.flowdock.com/account/tokens>`_ page of
         your Flowdock account.

   * - PagerDuty

     - Sends the alert to a `PagerDuty
       <http://www.pagerduty.com/?utm_source=mongodb&utm_medium=docs&utm_campaign=partner>`_
       account. Enter only the PagerDuty service key. Define escalation rules
       and alert assignments directly in PagerDuty.

       This option is available only for alerts that require acknowledgement.
       Informational alerts, such as the alert that a replica set has elected
       a new primary, cannot use this notification method.

       Users can acknowledge PagerDuty alerts only from the PagerDuty
       dashboard.

   * - .. only:: cloud

          Webhook

       .. only:: onprem

          Webhook *(group alerts only)*

     - Sends an HTTP POST request to an endpoint for programmatic
       processing. The request body contains a JSON document that uses
       the same format as the Public API's :doc:`Alerts resource
       </reference/api/alerts>`. This option is available only if you
       have configured Webhook settings on the :ref:`Group Settings
       <group-settings-page>` page.

   * - .. only:: onprem

          Administrators *(global or system alerts only)*

     - .. only:: onprem

          Sends the alert to the email address specified in the
          :guilabel:`Admin Email Address` field in the |onprem|
          :doc:`configuration options </reference/configuration>`.

   * - .. only:: onprem

          Global Alerts Summary Email *(global alerts only)*

     - .. only:: onprem

          Sends a summary email of all global alerts to the specified email address.
