source/includes/list-table-cluster-advanced-configuration-options-response.rst, before:

.. list-table::
   :widths: 20 10 70
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Name
     - Type
     - Description

   * - ``failIndexKeyTooLong``
     - boolean
     - When ``true``, documents can only be updated or inserted if, for 
       all indexed fields on the target collection, the corresponding 
       index entries do not exceed 1024 bytes. When ``false``, 
       :binary:`~bin.mongod` writes documents that breach the limit
       but does *not* index them. 

       This option corresponds to the 
       :parameter:`failIndexKeyTooLong <param.failIndexKeyTooLong>`
       :binary:`~bin.mongod` parameter.

   * - ``javascriptEnabled``
     - boolean
     - When ``true``, the cluster allows execution of operations that
       perform server-side executions of JavaScript. When ``false``,
       the cluster disables execution of those operations.

       This option corresponds to the 
       :setting:`security.javascriptEnabled` :binary:`~bin.mongod` 
       configuration file option.

   * - ``minimumEnabledTlsProtocol``
     - string
     - The minimum Transport Layer Security (TLS) version the 
       cluster accepts for incoming connections. 

       Clusters using the deprecated TLS 1.0 protocol version
       should consider setting TLS 1.1 or later as the minimum
       TLS protocol version. To learn more about TLS 1.0 deprecation,
       see :ref:`faq-tls-1.0-deprecation`.

       This option corresponds to the
       :setting:`net.ssl.disabledProtocols` :binary:`~bin.mongod`
       configuration file option.

   * - ``noTableScan``
     - boolean
     - When ``true``, the cluster disables the execution of any query 
       that requires a collection scan to return results. When 
       ``false``, the cluster allows the execution of those operations.

       This option corresponds to the
       :parameter:`notablescan <param.notablescan>` 
       :binary:`~bin.mongod` parameter.

   * - ``oplogSizeMB``
     - integer
     - The custom oplog size of the cluster. A value of ``null``
       indicates that the cluster uses the default oplog size calculated
       by |service|. 

       You can check the oplog size by connecting to your cluster
       via the :binary:`~bin.mongo` shell and authenticating as a user
       with the :authrole:`Atlas admin` role. Run the
       :method:`rs.printReplicationInfo() <rs.printReplicationInfo>` 
       method to view the current oplog size and time.

       This option corresponds to the 
       :setting:`replication.oplogSizeMB <replication.oplogSizeMB>`
       :binary:`~bin.mongod` configuration file option.

   * - ``sampleSizeBIConnector``
     - integer
     - Number of documents per database to sample when gathering
       schema information.

       This element corresponds to the :bic:`sampleSize
       </reference/mongosqld/#cmdoption-mongosqld-sampleSize>`
       :bic:`mongosqld </reference/mongosqld>` option.

   * - ``sampleRefreshIntervalBIConnector``
     - integer
     - Interval in seconds at which the :bic:`mongosqld process
       </reference/mongosqld/>` re-samples data to create its relational
       schema.

       This element corresponds to the :bic:`sampleRefreshIntervalSecs
       </reference/mongosqld/#cmdoption-mongosqld-sampleRefreshIntervalSecs>`
       ``mongosqld`` option.

Commit message:

(DOCSP-10411): javascriptEnabled also applies to mongos (#1658)
* (DOCSP-10411): javascriptEnabled also applies to mongos

* updates per tech review

source/includes/list-table-cluster-advanced-configuration-options-response.rst, after:

.. list-table::
   :widths: 20 10 70
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Name
     - Type
     - Description

   * - ``failIndexKeyTooLong``
     - boolean
     - When ``true``, documents can only be updated or inserted if, for 
       all indexed fields on the target collection, the corresponding 
       index entries do not exceed 1024 bytes. When ``false``, 
       :binary:`~bin.mongod` writes documents that breach the limit
       but does *not* index them. 

       This option corresponds to the 
       :parameter:`failIndexKeyTooLong <param.failIndexKeyTooLong>`
       :binary:`~bin.mongod` parameter.

   * - ``javascriptEnabled``
     - boolean
     - When ``true``, the cluster allows execution of operations that
       perform server-side executions of JavaScript. When ``false``,
       the cluster disables execution of those operations.

       - If your cluster runs a MongoDB version less than 4.4, this
         option corresponds to modifying the
         :setting:`security.javascriptEnabled` configuration file option
         for each :binary:`~bin.mongod` in the cluster.
         
       - If your cluster runs MongoDB version 4.4 or greater, this
         option corresponds to  modifying the
         :setting:`security.javascriptEnabled` configuration file option
         for each :binary:`~bin.mongod` and :binary:`~bin.mongos` in the
         cluster.

   * - ``minimumEnabledTlsProtocol``
     - string
     - The minimum Transport Layer Security (TLS) version the 
       cluster accepts for incoming connections. 

       Clusters using the deprecated TLS 1.0 protocol version
       should consider setting TLS 1.1 or later as the minimum
       TLS protocol version. To learn more about TLS 1.0 deprecation,
       see :ref:`faq-tls-1.0-deprecation`.

       This option corresponds to the
       :setting:`net.ssl.disabledProtocols` :binary:`~bin.mongod`
       configuration file option.

   * - ``noTableScan``
     - boolean
     - When ``true``, the cluster disables the execution of any query 
       that requires a collection scan to return results. When 
       ``false``, the cluster allows the execution of those operations.

       This option corresponds to the
       :parameter:`notablescan <param.notablescan>` 
       :binary:`~bin.mongod` parameter.

   * - ``oplogSizeMB``
     - integer
     - The custom oplog size of the cluster. A value of ``null``
       indicates that the cluster uses the default oplog size calculated
       by |service|. 

       You can check the oplog size by connecting to your cluster
       via the :binary:`~bin.mongo` shell and authenticating as a user
       with the :authrole:`Atlas admin` role. Run the
       :method:`rs.printReplicationInfo() <rs.printReplicationInfo>` 
       method to view the current oplog size and time.

       This option corresponds to the 
       :setting:`replication.oplogSizeMB <replication.oplogSizeMB>`
       :binary:`~bin.mongod` configuration file option.

   * - ``sampleSizeBIConnector``
     - integer
     - Number of documents per database to sample when gathering
       schema information.

       This element corresponds to the :bic:`sampleSize
       </reference/mongosqld/#cmdoption-mongosqld-sampleSize>`
       :bic:`mongosqld </reference/mongosqld>` option.

   * - ``sampleRefreshIntervalBIConnector``
     - integer
     - Interval in seconds at which the :bic:`mongosqld process
       </reference/mongosqld/>` re-samples data to create its relational
       schema.

       This element corresponds to the :bic:`sampleRefreshIntervalSecs
       </reference/mongosqld/#cmdoption-mongosqld-sampleRefreshIntervalSecs>`
       ``mongosqld`` option.
