The "Users" page has four important tabs:

Users
~~~~~

:guilabel:`Users` lists the users that have access to your MMS group,
their role, their date of last login, the number of times they have
logged in, their time zone, and the creation date of the account.

User Roles
``````````

|MMS| supports two different user roles: *Group Admin* and *Read
Only*. Group Admins have full administrative access, and can add or
change anything within the MMS Console. In contrast, Read Only users
can only modify user-level settings like their email address, mobile
phone number, password, time zone, etc. 

The Read Only user role is a good option for users who require
visibility into your MongoDB deployments, but who do not need access
to edit group settings or modify your MMS configuration.
group settings or modifying your MMS configuration.")

Add Users
`````````

You can add a user from any tab of the "Users" page: simply select
``+ Add/Invite User`` at the top of the screen next to the group name.
This will open a modal window where you will input the new user's email
address, and can select their role.

If the console finds a connected Jira account, MMS will automatically
add the user to your Jira group and the MMS console. 

If the email address is not connected to an existing Jira account, MMS
will send an invitation to join your group. Once accepted, MMS will
create and add a new user to your group.

Users can also create accounts at any time using the "`account
registration page <https://mms.mongodb.com/user/register/user>`_", or
through Jira at `jira.mongodb.org <http://jira.mongodb.org/>`_.

.. index:: users; propagation

.. note::

   If you create an account in Jira or make any changes to that
   account from *within* Jira, it can take up to 30 minutes for that
   change to propagate to MMS. During this window you cannot add a
   user to a group in MMS. Also, passwords changed in Jira are subject
   to the same propagation delay for MMS accounts.

Edit User Privileges
````````````````````

To edit a user's permissions, click on the ":guilabel:`pencil`" icon
in the last column of the :guilabel:`Users` table. This will open a
modal window where you can select the user's role.

.. note:: 

   Only users with the Group Admin role can edit permission
   levels. In addition, users cannot edit their own permissions
   (i.e. Group Admins cannot "demote" themselves to the Read Only role).

Remove Users
````````````

.. include:: /includes/fact-remove-user.rst

Requests
~~~~~~~~

:guilabel:`Requests` lists pending requests to join your group. Users
can request access when they create their MMS account, as on the
registration page.

Invitations
~~~~~~~~~~~

:guilabel:`Invitations` lists pending invitations to your group. When
you invite a user, as when you click on the :guilabel:`+Add/Invite
User` button at the top of the console and complete the form. MMS then
sends an email to the prospective new user and lists the invitation
until the user accepts.

User Host Actions
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

:guilabel:`User Host Actions` lists host-affecting user actions. The
"Host" column provides the hostname, the "Action" column describes the
action (e.g. reactivate, add, delete, etc.), the "User Address" column
records the user's IP address, and the "Date" column lists the date
and time of the action.
