source/includes/mongodb-compatibility-table-java.rst, before:

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1
   :stub-columns: 1
   :class: compatibility-large

   * - Java Driver Version
     - MongoDB 8.0
     - MongoDB 7.0
     - MongoDB 6.1
     - MongoDB 6.0
     - MongoDB 5.0
     - MongoDB 4.4
     - MongoDB 4.2
     - MongoDB 4.0
     - MongoDB 3.6

   * - 5.2 to 5.4
     - ✓
     - ✓
     - ✓
     - ✓
     - ✓
     - ✓
     - ✓
     - ✓
     -

   * - 4.10 to 5.1
     - ⊛
     - ✓
     - ✓
     - ✓
     - ✓
     - ✓
     - ✓
     - ✓
     - ✓

   * - 4.8 to 4.9
     - ⊛
     - ⊛
     - ✓
     - ✓
     - ✓
     - ✓
     - ✓
     - ✓
     - ✓

   * - 4.7
     - ⊛
     - ⊛
     - ⊛
     - ✓
     - ✓
     - ✓
     - ✓
     - ✓
     - ✓

   * - 4.3 to 4.6
     - ⊛
     - ⊛
     - ⊛
     - ⊛
     - ✓
     - ✓
     - ✓
     - ✓
     - ✓

   * - 4.1 to 4.2
     - ⊛
     - ⊛
     - ⊛
     - ⊛
     - ⊛
     - ✓
     - ✓
     - ✓
     - ✓

   * - 3.11 to 4.0
     - ⊛
     - ⊛
     - ⊛
     - ⊛
     - ⊛
     - ⊛
     - ✓
     - ✓
     - ✓

   * - 3.8 to 3.10
     - ⊛
     - ⊛
     - ⊛
     - ⊛
     - ⊛
     - ⊛
     - ⊛
     - ✓
     - ✓

Commit message:

DOCSP-48921: Server 8.1 compat (#670)
* DOCSP-48921: Server 8.1 compat

* AB tech review comments

* reload shared file

* AB x fix

source/includes/mongodb-compatibility-table-java.rst, after:

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1
   :stub-columns: 1
   :class: compatibility-large

   * - Java Driver Version
     - MongoDB 8.1
     - MongoDB 8.0
     - MongoDB 7.0
     - MongoDB 6.1
     - MongoDB 6.0
     - MongoDB 5.0
     - MongoDB 4.4
     - MongoDB 4.2
     - MongoDB 4.0
     - MongoDB 3.6

   * - 5.2 to 5.4
     - ✓
     - ✓
     - ✓
     - ✓
     - ✓
     - ✓
     - ✓
     - ✓
     - ✓
     -

   * - 4.10 to 5.1
     - ⊛
     - ⊛
     - ✓
     - ✓
     - ✓
     - ✓
     - ✓
     - ✓
     - ✓
     - ✓

   * - 4.8 to 4.9
     - ⊛
     - ⊛
     - ⊛
     - ✓
     - ✓
     - ✓
     - ✓
     - ✓
     - ✓
     - ✓

   * - 4.7
     - ⊛
     - ⊛
     - ⊛
     - ⊛
     - ✓
     - ✓
     - ✓
     - ✓
     - ✓
     - ✓

   * - 4.3 to 4.6
     - ⊛
     - ⊛
     - ⊛
     - ⊛
     - ⊛
     - ✓
     - ✓
     - ✓
     - ✓
     - ✓

   * - 4.1 to 4.2
     - ⊛
     - ⊛
     - ⊛
     - ⊛
     - ⊛
     - ⊛
     - ✓
     - ✓
     - ✓
     - ✓

   * - 4.0
     - ⊛
     - ⊛
     - ⊛
     - ⊛
     - ⊛
     - ⊛
     - ⊛
     - ✓
     - ✓
     - ✓

   * - 3.11 to 3.12
     - ✗ [#v3-note]_
     - ⊛
     - ⊛
     - ⊛
     - ⊛
     - ⊛
     - ⊛
     - ✓
     - ✓
     - ✓

   * - 3.8 to 3.10
     - ✗ [#v3-note]_
     - ⊛
     - ⊛
     - ⊛
     - ⊛
     - ⊛
     - ⊛
     - ⊛
     - ✓
     - ✓

.. [#v3-note] These driver versions are not compatible with MongoDB 8.1 or later because of an authentication issue. To learn more, see :ref:`java-server-8.1-incompatibility`.
