source/includes/remainingOperationTimeEstimatedSecs-details.rst, before:

``remainingOperationTimeEstimatedSecs``: estimated time remaining in
seconds for the current :ref:`resharding operation
<sharding-resharding>`. It is returned as ``-1`` when a new resharding
operation starts.

Starting in:

- MongoDB 5.0, but before MongoDB 7.0,
  ``remainingOperationTimeEstimatedSecs`` is only available on a
  :ref:`recipient shard <resharding-process-details>` during a
  resharding operation.
- MongoDB 7.0, ``remainingOperationTimeEstimatedSecs`` is also available
  on the coordinator during a resharding operation.

The resharding operation performs these phases in order:

#. The clone phase duplicates the current collection data.
#. The catch-up phase applies any pending write operations to the
   resharded collection.

``remainingOperationTimeEstimatedSecs`` is set to a pessimistic time
estimate:

- The catch-up phase time estimate is set to the clone phase time, which
  is a relatively long time.
- In practice, if there are only a few pending write operations, the
  actual catch-up phase time is relatively short.

Commit message:

DOCS-16911-building-index-phase-resharding (#10892)

source/includes/remainingOperationTimeEstimatedSecs-details.rst, after:

``remainingOperationTimeEstimatedSecs``: estimated time remaining in
seconds for the current :ref:`resharding operation
<sharding-resharding>`. It is returned as ``-1`` when a new resharding
operation starts.

Starting in:

- MongoDB 5.0, but before MongoDB 7.0,
  ``remainingOperationTimeEstimatedSecs`` is only available on a
  :ref:`recipient shard <resharding-process-details>` during a
  resharding operation.
- MongoDB 7.0, ``remainingOperationTimeEstimatedSecs`` is also available
  on the coordinator during a resharding operation.

The resharding operation performs these phases in order:

#. The clone phase duplicates the current collection data.
#. The building indexes phase builds indexes on the resharded collection.
#. The catch-up phase applies any pending write operations to the
   resharded collection.

``remainingOperationTimeEstimatedSecs`` is set to a pessimistic time
estimate:

- The catch-up phase time estimate is set to the clone phase time, which
  is a relatively long time.
- In practice, if there are only a few pending write operations, the
  actual catch-up phase time is relatively short.
