source/includes/setting-uiConf-installer-download-source.rst, before:

.. setting:: Installer Download Source

   *Type*: string

   *Default*: :guilabel:`remote`

   
   You need to select the :guilabel:`Source for agents to download 
   MongoDB binaries:`
   
   .. list-table::
      :widths: 30 70
   
      * - :guilabel:`remote`
        - All Agents and |onprem| hosts download MongoDB 
          binaries from a remote source in the background. An internet 
          connection is required on all hosts.
   
          You can specify the remote source for downloading MongoDB 
          binaries with the :setting:`Base URL` field. If you don't, 
          :guilabel:`Base URL` defaults to **mongodb.com** and 
          **fastdl.mongodb.org**.
   
      * - :guilabel:`hybrid`
        - Agents get MongoDB binaries from |onprem|, which fetches 
          binaries from a remote source.
   
          You can specify the remote source for downloading MongoDB 
          binaries with the :setting:`Base URL` field. If you don't, 
          :guilabel:`Base URL` defaults to **mongodb.com** and 
          **fastdl.mongodb.org**.
   
      * - :guilabel:`local`
        - Agents get MongoDB binaries from |onprem|, which has them 
          on disk.
   
          An |onprem| administrator must 
          :doc:`provide installers </tutorial/configure-local-mode>`
          from the :dl:`MongoDB Download Center <ops-manager>` and upload them
          into the :setting:`Versions Directory`. |onprem| serves
          the installers to Agent hosts. The Version Manifest
          must be 
          :doc:`updated manually </tutorial/update-version-manifest>`.
          No hosts in the deployment require an internet connection.
   
   Corresponds to :setting:`automation.versions.source`.

Commit message:

DOCSP-48454-update-binaries-download-urls (#790)
Updates binaries [downloads
URLs](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/ops-manager/current/core/requirements/)
list in the following pages:

- [Configure Local
Mode](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/ops-manager/current/tutorial/configure-local-mode/)
- [Configure - Version
Management](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/ops-manager/current/reference/config/ui-settings/#mongodb-version-management)
- [Configuration Settings - Version Management -
baseUrl](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/ops-manager/current/reference/configuration/#mongodb-setting-automation.versions.download.baseUrl)

### Jira Ticket

- [DOCSP-48454](https://jira.mongodb.org/browse/DOCSP-48454)

### Staging

- [Configure Local
Mode](https://deploy-preview-790--docs-ops-manager.netlify.app/tutorial/configure-local-mode/#configure-mongodb-agents-to-use-remote--hybrid--or-local-downloads)
- [Configure - Version
Management](https://deploy-preview-790--docs-ops-manager.netlify.app/reference/config/ui-settings/#mongodb-version-management)
- [Configuration Settings - Version Management -
baseUrl](https://deploy-preview-790--docs-ops-manager.netlify.app/reference/configuration/#mongodb-setting-automation.versions.download.baseUrl)

### Build Log

- [LATEST BUILD
LOG](https://app.netlify.com/sites/docs-ops-manager/deploys/67e1f2a8d0206f0008bf0a2d)

### Self-Review Checklist

- [ ]
[Define](https://wiki.corp.mongodb.com/display/DE/Taxonomy+tagging+instructions)
taxonomy
[values](https://wiki.corp.mongodb.com/display/DE/Docs+Taxonomy) at top
of page.
- [ ] Add genre facets (tutorial or reference), as in this [example
PR](https://github.com/10gen/cloud-docs/pull/5042).
- [ ] Add programmingLanguage (if necessary).
- [ ] Add meta keywords (if necessary).
- [ ] Resolve any new warnings or errors in the build.
- [x] Proofread for spelling and grammatical errors.
- [x] Check staging for rendering issues.
- [x] Confirm links are working.

source/includes/setting-uiConf-installer-download-source.rst, after:

.. setting:: Installer Download Source

   *Type*: string

   *Default*: :guilabel:`remote`

   
   You need to select the :guilabel:`Source for agents to download 
   MongoDB binaries:`
   
   .. list-table::
      :widths: 30 70
   
      * - :guilabel:`remote`
        - All Agents and |onprem| hosts download MongoDB 
          binaries from a remote source in the background. An internet 
          connection is required on all hosts.
   
          You can specify the remote source for downloading MongoDB 
          binaries with the :setting:`Base URL` field. If you don't, 
          :guilabel:`Base URL` defaults to the remote URLs for downloading
          MongoDB binaries as listed in the :ref:`Network Requirements <network-requirements>`.
   
      * - :guilabel:`hybrid`
        - Agents get MongoDB binaries from |onprem|, which fetches 
          binaries from a remote source.
   
          You can specify the remote source for downloading MongoDB 
          binaries with the :setting:`Base URL` field. If you don't, 
          :guilabel:`Base URL` defaults to the remote URLs for downloading
          MongoDB binaries as listed in the :ref:`Network Requirements <network-requirements>`.
   
      * - :guilabel:`local`
        - Agents get MongoDB binaries from |onprem|, which has them 
          on disk.
   
          An |onprem| administrator must 
          :doc:`provide installers </tutorial/configure-local-mode>`
          from the :dl:`MongoDB Download Center <ops-manager>` and upload them
          into the :setting:`Versions Directory`. |onprem| serves
          the installers to Agent hosts. The Version Manifest
          must be 
          :doc:`updated manually </tutorial/update-version-manifest>`.
          No hosts in the deployment require an internet connection.
   
   Corresponds to :setting:`automation.versions.source`.
