source/includes/steps-migrate-from-com.rst, before:

.. procedure::
   :style: normal
      
   .. include:: /includes/nav/steps-org-settings.rst

   .. include:: /includes/nav/steps-org-live-migration.rst

   .. step:: Start the migration process.
      
      a. Click :guilabel:`Migrate from Ops Manager or Cloud Manager`.
      
      #. Click :guilabel:`I'm Ready to Start` and, if you are
         :opsmgr:`migrating </tutorial/migrate-community-to-atlas>` from
         MongoDB Community using |onprem|, click :guilabel:`Ops Manager
         License Agreement` to read and accept it. To read the agreement
         outside of the Live Migration Wizard, see the
         :opsmgr:`Ops Manager Migration Agreement
         </reference/legal/live-migration-atlas-licensing>`.
      
      |service| displays a Live Migration wizard with instructions on how
      to proceed with the process. The process pushes the data from your
      source {+cluster+} to the new destination {+cluster+}. After you complete
      the wizard steps, you can point your application to the new {+cluster+}.
      
   .. step:: Link with Atlas.
      
      a. Click :guilabel:`Generate Link-Token`. |service| displays the
         page for generating a :term:`link-token`.
      
         - If you are migrating from |onprem|, enter the external IP addresses
           or a |cidr| block of your |onprem| instances to add them to the access
           list of the API Key embedded in the link-token. This allows |onprem|
           to send project and cluster information to |service|.
           |onprem| does not send any data stored in your MongoDB databases
           in this step. For example, enter ``23.248.95.14``.
         - If you are migrating from |mms|, skip this step.
      
      #. Click :guilabel:`Next` to see a page that contains the generated link-token.
      
      #. Copy the link-token and store it in a secure location. |service|
         never displays the contents of the link-token. |service| also does
         not display the link-token after generating it. Do not
         share it publicly.
      
         .. note::
            Use one unique :term:`link-token` for live migrating all
            projects in one |com| organization to |service|.
      
      #. Click :guilabel:`Done`.
      
   .. step:: Paste the link-token into Ops Manager or Cloud Manager.
      
      a. Access the organization in |com|:
      
         Open |onprem| or |mms|, and navigate to the organization
         whose project's {+cluster+} you are live migrating to |service|.
      
      #. Click :guilabel:`Settings` in the left navigation panel.
      
      #. In the :guilabel:`Live Migration: Connect to Atlas` section, click
         :guilabel:`Connect to Atlas`. The :guilabel:`Connect to Atlas`
         dialog box opens.
      
      #. Paste the link-token you generated in the previous step of the
         Live Migration wizard and click :guilabel:`Connect to Atlas`.
         |com| establishes the connection to |service|. Use the
         :guilabel:`Refresh` button to send an update to |service|, if
         needed. To learn more, see
         :opsmgr:`Connect to Atlas for Live Migration
         </tutorial/connect-to-atlas-live-migration>` in Ops Manager, or
         :cloudmgr:`Connect to Atlas for Live Migration
         </tutorial/connect-to-atlas-live-migration>` in |mms|.
      
   .. step:: Create the destination Atlas cluster.
      
      If you haven't already, create a destination {+cluster+} in |service|.
      See :ref:`migrate-from-com-prereqs`.
      
   .. step:: Initiate the migration from the destination cluster.
      
      a. Click :guilabel:`Select Target Cluster from Projects`.
      
      #. Go to your destination |service| cluster's project and find your
         destination cluster.
      
      #. Click :icon-fa5:`ellipsis-h` and select :guilabel:`Migrate Data to this Cluster`
         from the dropdown list to start the migration.
         The :guilabel:`Migrate Data to This Cluster` page opens.
      
      #. Click :guilabel:`Migrate from Ops Manager or Cloud Manager` and
         fill in the fields as follows:
      
         - Select the source project in |com|, if it's not  already selected.
         - Select a migration host for handling the migration.
      
         - Review the IP address access list and check that the migration
           host's external IP address is included in this list. If it's not
           added, add it now:
           
           - Click :guilabel:`Set Network Access for Host`
           - Click :guilabel:`+ Add IP Address`
           - Return to the Live Migration wizard. Select the source
             cluster from the dropdown and choose
             :guilabel:`Migrate data to this cluster` under :icon-fa5:`ellipsis-h`.
         
         - Select the source {+cluster+} from the drop-down.
      
         - If you suspend the source {+cluster+} from automation in |com|, but
           continue to monitor the source {+cluster+} with the Monitoring Agent,
           the :guilabel:`Username` and :guilabel:`Password` display. If
           your deployment requires user authentication, provide the user
           name and password in these fields. The database user whose
           credentials you provide must have at least the
           :manual:`backup role
           </reference/built-in-roles/#mongodb-authrole-backup>` on
           the admin database and must be authenticated using
           :manual:`both SCRAM-SHA-1 and SCRAM-SHA-256 </core/security-scram/>`.
      
         - If the source cluster uses |tls-ssl|, toggle the
           :guilabel:`Is encryption in transit enabled?` button.
      
         - If the source cluster uses |tls-ssl| with a custom Root
           Certificate Authority (CA), copy the path to the
           :abbr:`CA (Certificate Authority)` file from your migration host
           and paste this path into the provided text box. The file must be
           present on the migration host to ensure the migration host can
           read the certificate. |service| checks that the certificate is
           present and readable.
      
         - If your replica set destination {+cluster+} has data, and you
           want to preserve it, keep the
           :guilabel:`Clear any existing data on your destination cluster` option
           unchecked. The live migration service warns you if it finds duplicate
           namespaces. If you want to delete the existing data, check this
           option.
      
         - Choose a connection to connect to the {+cluster+}. The
           :guilabel:`Standard connection` always shows as available in
           the UI. However, other connection options are enabled only if
           you have previously configured a VPC peering connection or a
           private endpoint. If |service| detects that you don't have VPC
           connections or private endpoints configured, these options are
           grayed out.
         
           - If you aren't using VPC peering or a private endpoint, click
             :guilabel:`Standard connection` and proceed to the
             :guilabel:`Validation` stage of this step.
      
           - If you configured a :ref:`VPC peering connection <vpc-peering>`
             between the migration host and the |service| {+cluster+}, the
             :guilabel:`VPC Peering` option is active. Click
             :guilabel:`VPC Peering` to connect using VPC peering for live
             migration. If the :guilabel:`VPC Peering` option is grayed out,
             :ref:`configure a VPC peering connection <vpc-peering>` before
             starting this procedure. To learn more, see
             :ref:`migrate-from-com-vpc-support`.
      
           - If you are migrating a replica set and configured a
             :ref:`private endpoint <private-endpoint>` between the
             migration host and the |service| {+cluster+}, the
             :guilabel:`Private Endpoint` option is active. Click
             :guilabel:`Private Endpoint` to connect with a
             :ref:`private endpoint <private-endpoint>`, and then select
             a previously-configured private endpoint from the dropdown.
             Only private endpoints that are in ``AVAILABLE`` state are valid.
             If the :guilabel:`Private Endpoint` option is grayed out,
             :ref:`configure a private endpoint <private-endpoint>`
             before starting this procedure. To learn more, see
             :ref:`migrate-from-com-vpc-support`.
      
             .. note::
      
                .. include:: /includes/fact-private-endpoint-limitations-push-live-migration.rst
      
         - Click :guilabel:`Validate`. The validation process verifies that
           your migration host is reachable, and performs the following
           validation checks to ensure that you can start live migration
           to |service|.
      
           To take advantage of the following validation checks,
           :opsmgr:`upgrade the MongoDB Agent in Ops Manager
           </tutorial/update-mongodb-agent-from-automation-agent/>`, or
           :cloudmgr:`upgrade the MongoDB Agent in Cloud Manager 
           </tutorial/update-mongodb-agent-from-automation-agent/>` to
           the latest version.
           If the live migration process detects that the source cluster is
           running a version of MongoDB Agent earlier than 12.0.11.7606 for
           Ops Manager, or 12.5.0.7713 for |mms|, it displays a banner
           warning suggesting that you upgrade the MongoDB Agent.
      
           The following validation checks run during the live migration:
      
           - The migration host can connect to the destination {+cluster+}.
           - If the source cluster uses |tls-ssl| with a custom Root
             Certificate Authority (CA), the migration host can access
             the source cluster using |tls-ssl|.
           - The database user credentials are valid. This validation check
             runs only if you suspend the source cluster from automation in
             |com|, but continue to monitor the source cluster with the
             Monitoring Agent.
      
           - If you are migrating from |onprem| before version 5.0.9, the
             live migration process validates that the destination {+cluster+}
             has enough disk space based on the data size. If you are migrating
             from |mms| or |onprem| 5.0.9 or later, the migration process
             validates that the destination {+cluster+} has enough disk space
             based on the storage size of the compressed data. To learn more
             about data and storage sizes, see
             :manual:`dbStats </reference/command/dbStats/#output>`.
      
         - If validation fails, check the migration host, the validity of
           your external IP addresses or |cidr| block, and the link-token.
           Also check the database user credentials, your |tls-ssl|
           certificates, and the amount of disk storage size on the destination
           {+cluster+}.
         - If validation succeeds, click :guilabel:`Next`. The
           :guilabel:`Migrate from Ops Manager or Cloud Manager` page displays.
      
   .. step:: Start the migration.
      
      a. Review the report listing your source organization, project and
         cluster, and the migration host that the live migration process
         will use.
      #. Click :guilabel:`Start the Migration`.
      
   .. step:: Prepare to Cut Over.

      A lag time value dispays during the final oplog tailing phase that
      represents the current lag between the source and destination {+clusters+}.
      This lag time may fluctuate depending on the rate of oplog generation
      on the source cluster, but should decrease over time as the live
      migration process copies the oplog entries to the destination {+cluster+}.

      a. When the lag timer and the :guilabel:`Prepare to Cutover` button
         turn green, click it to proceed to the next step.
      
   .. step:: Perform the cutover.
      
      When |service| detects that the source and destination {+clusters+} are
      nearly in sync, it starts an extendable 120 hour (5 day) timer to
      begin the cutover stage of the live migration procedure. If the
      120 hour period passes, |service| stops synchronizing with the source
      {+cluster+}. You can extend the time remaining by 24 hours by clicking
      :guilabel:`Extend time` below the :guilabel:`<time> left to cut over`
      timer.
      
      .. include:: /includes/import/migration-email-expiration.rst

      To finish migrating your MongoDB data to your |service| {+cluster+},
      complete the following steps on the
      :guilabel:`Your migration is almost complete!` page:
      
      a. Prepare to point to your |service| {+cluster+}. Copy the new
         :manual:`connection string </reference/connection-string/>` so that
         you can update it and point your application to the destination
         |service| {+cluster+}.
      
      #. Stop your application. This action ensures that no more writes occur
         on the source {+cluster+}.

      #. Wait for the optime gap to reach zero. When the counter reaches zero,
         the source and destination {+clusters+} are in sync.

      #. Click :guilabel:`Cut Over` to complete the migration process.
      
         If you click :guilabel:`Cancel` on the live migration progress bar,
         |service| stops synchronizing writes from the source {+cluster+}.
         All migrated data remains on your |service| {+cluster+}.
      
         You can click :guilabel:`Cut Over` again to allow |service| to
         complete the migration process.

      #. Wait until |service| configures your destination {+cluster+} and
         it is ready to use. For smaller clusters, this time is 3-5 minutes.
         For larger clusters, this time can extend up to 10 minutes or
         longer, depending on the {+cluster+} size and configuration.

         .. include:: /includes/import/migration-email-lm-in-progress.rst

      #. When you are ready to redirect writes to the destination {+cluster+}   in |service|:

         i. Use the destination {+cluster+}'s connection string to connect to your application.
         #. Confirm that your application is working with the destination |service| {+cluster+}.
         #. Verify your data on the destination {+cluster+}.
         #. Resume writes to the destination {+cluster+}.
      
         |service| performs these actions to complete the process:

         - Removes the MongoDB live migration server subnets from the IP access
           list on the destination {+cluster+}.
         - Removes the database user that live migration used to import data
           to the destination {+cluster+}.
         - Marks the migration process as complete.

Commit message:

(DOCSP-47178) Add manual data transfer verification recommendations to the legacy live migrations: push, pull, and mongomirror (#6819)
* (DOCSP-47178) Add manual data transfer verification recommendations to the legacy live migrations: push, pull, and mongomirror

source/includes/steps-migrate-from-com.rst, after:

.. procedure::
   :style: normal
      
   .. include:: /includes/nav/steps-org-settings.rst

   .. include:: /includes/nav/steps-org-live-migration.rst

   .. step:: Start the migration process.
      
      a. Click :guilabel:`Migrate from Ops Manager or Cloud Manager`.
      
      #. Click :guilabel:`I'm Ready to Start` and, if you are
         :opsmgr:`migrating </tutorial/migrate-community-to-atlas>` from
         MongoDB Community using |onprem|, click :guilabel:`Ops Manager
         License Agreement` to read and accept it. To read the agreement
         outside of the Live Migration Wizard, see the
         :opsmgr:`Ops Manager Migration Agreement
         </reference/legal/live-migration-atlas-licensing>`.
      
      |service| displays a Live Migration wizard with instructions on how
      to proceed with the process. The process pushes the data from your
      source {+cluster+} to the new destination {+cluster+}. After you complete
      the wizard steps, you can point your application to the new {+cluster+}.
      
   .. step:: Link with Atlas.
      
      a. Click :guilabel:`Generate Link-Token`. |service| displays the
         page for generating a :term:`link-token`.
      
         - If you are migrating from |onprem|, enter the external IP addresses
           or a |cidr| block of your |onprem| instances to add them to the access
           list of the API Key embedded in the link-token. This allows |onprem|
           to send project and cluster information to |service|.
           |onprem| does not send any data stored in your MongoDB databases
           in this step. For example, enter ``23.248.95.14``.
         - If you are migrating from |mms|, skip this step.
      
      #. Click :guilabel:`Next` to see a page that contains the generated link-token.
      
      #. Copy the link-token and store it in a secure location. |service|
         never displays the contents of the link-token. |service| also does
         not display the link-token after generating it. Do not
         share it publicly.
      
         .. note::
            Use one unique :term:`link-token` for live migrating all
            projects in one |com| organization to |service|.
      
      #. Click :guilabel:`Done`.
      
   .. step:: Paste the link-token into Ops Manager or Cloud Manager.
      
      a. Access the organization in |com|:
      
         Open |onprem| or |mms|, and navigate to the organization
         whose project's {+cluster+} you are live migrating to |service|.
      
      #. Click :guilabel:`Settings` in the left navigation panel.
      
      #. In the :guilabel:`Live Migration: Connect to Atlas` section, click
         :guilabel:`Connect to Atlas`. The :guilabel:`Connect to Atlas`
         dialog box opens.
      
      #. Paste the link-token you generated in the previous step of the
         Live Migration wizard and click :guilabel:`Connect to Atlas`.
         |com| establishes the connection to |service|. Use the
         :guilabel:`Refresh` button to send an update to |service|, if
         needed. To learn more, see
         :opsmgr:`Connect to Atlas for Live Migration
         </tutorial/connect-to-atlas-live-migration>` in Ops Manager, or
         :cloudmgr:`Connect to Atlas for Live Migration
         </tutorial/connect-to-atlas-live-migration>` in |mms|.
      
   .. step:: Create the destination Atlas cluster.
      
      If you haven't already, create a destination {+cluster+} in |service|.
      See :ref:`migrate-from-com-prereqs`.
      
   .. step:: Initiate the migration from the destination cluster.
      
      a. Click :guilabel:`Select Target Cluster from Projects`.
      
      #. Go to your destination |service| cluster's project and find your
         destination cluster.
      
      #. Click :icon-fa5:`ellipsis-h` and select :guilabel:`Migrate Data to this Cluster`
         from the dropdown list to start the migration.
         The :guilabel:`Migrate Data to This Cluster` page opens.
      
      #. Click :guilabel:`Migrate from Ops Manager or Cloud Manager` and
         fill in the fields as follows:
      
         - Select the source project in |com|, if it's not  already selected.
         - Select a migration host for handling the migration.
      
         - Review the IP address access list and check that the migration
           host's external IP address is included in this list. If it's not
           added, add it now:
           
           - Click :guilabel:`Set Network Access for Host`
           - Click :guilabel:`+ Add IP Address`
           - Return to the Live Migration wizard. Select the source
             cluster from the dropdown and choose
             :guilabel:`Migrate data to this cluster` under :icon-fa5:`ellipsis-h`.
         
         - Select the source {+cluster+} from the drop-down.
      
         - If you suspend the source {+cluster+} from automation in |com|, but
           continue to monitor the source {+cluster+} with the Monitoring Agent,
           the :guilabel:`Username` and :guilabel:`Password` display. If
           your deployment requires user authentication, provide the user
           name and password in these fields. The database user whose
           credentials you provide must have at least the
           :manual:`backup role
           </reference/built-in-roles/#mongodb-authrole-backup>` on
           the admin database and must be authenticated using
           :manual:`both SCRAM-SHA-1 and SCRAM-SHA-256 </core/security-scram/>`.
      
         - If the source cluster uses |tls-ssl|, toggle the
           :guilabel:`Is encryption in transit enabled?` button.
      
         - If the source cluster uses |tls-ssl| with a custom Root
           Certificate Authority (CA), copy the path to the
           :abbr:`CA (Certificate Authority)` file from your migration host
           and paste this path into the provided text box. The file must be
           present on the migration host to ensure the migration host can
           read the certificate. |service| checks that the certificate is
           present and readable.
      
         - If your replica set destination {+cluster+} has data, and you
           want to preserve it, keep the
           :guilabel:`Clear any existing data on your destination cluster` option
           unchecked. The live migration service warns you if it finds duplicate
           namespaces. If you want to delete the existing data, check this
           option.
      
         - Choose a connection to connect to the {+cluster+}. The
           :guilabel:`Standard connection` always shows as available in
           the UI. However, other connection options are enabled only if
           you have previously configured a VPC peering connection or a
           private endpoint. If |service| detects that you don't have VPC
           connections or private endpoints configured, these options are
           grayed out.
         
           - If you aren't using VPC peering or a private endpoint, click
             :guilabel:`Standard connection` and proceed to the
             :guilabel:`Validation` stage of this step.
      
           - If you configured a :ref:`VPC peering connection <vpc-peering>`
             between the migration host and the |service| {+cluster+}, the
             :guilabel:`VPC Peering` option is active. Click
             :guilabel:`VPC Peering` to connect using VPC peering for live
             migration. If the :guilabel:`VPC Peering` option is grayed out,
             :ref:`configure a VPC peering connection <vpc-peering>` before
             starting this procedure. To learn more, see
             :ref:`migrate-from-com-vpc-support`.
      
           - If you are migrating a replica set and configured a
             :ref:`private endpoint <private-endpoint>` between the
             migration host and the |service| {+cluster+}, the
             :guilabel:`Private Endpoint` option is active. Click
             :guilabel:`Private Endpoint` to connect with a
             :ref:`private endpoint <private-endpoint>`, and then select
             a previously-configured private endpoint from the dropdown.
             Only private endpoints that are in ``AVAILABLE`` state are valid.
             If the :guilabel:`Private Endpoint` option is grayed out,
             :ref:`configure a private endpoint <private-endpoint>`
             before starting this procedure. To learn more, see
             :ref:`migrate-from-com-vpc-support`.
      
             .. note::
      
                .. include:: /includes/fact-private-endpoint-limitations-push-live-migration.rst
      
         - Click :guilabel:`Validate`. The validation process verifies that
           your migration host is reachable, and performs the following
           validation checks to ensure that you can start live migration
           to |service|.

           To take advantage of the following validation checks,
           :opsmgr:`upgrade the MongoDB Agent in Ops Manager </tutorial/update-mongodb-agent-from-automation-agent/>`,
           or :cloudmgr:`upgrade the MongoDB Agent in Cloud Manager </tutorial/update-mongodb-agent-from-automation-agent/>`
           to the latest version. If the live migration process detects that
           the source {+cluster+} is running a version of MongoDB Agent
           earlier than 12.0.11.7606 for Ops Manager, or 12.5.0.7713 for |mms|,
           it displays a banner warning suggesting that you upgrade the MongoDB Agent.

           The following validation checks run during the live migration:

           - The migration host can connect to the destination {+cluster+}.
           - If the source cluster uses |tls-ssl| with a custom Root
             Certificate Authority (CA), the migration host can access
             the source cluster using |tls-ssl|.
           - The database user credentials are valid. This validation check
             runs only if you suspend the source cluster from automation in
             |com|, but continue to monitor the source cluster with the
             Monitoring Agent.
      
           - If you are migrating from |onprem| before version 5.0.9, the
             live migration process validates that the destination {+cluster+}
             has enough disk space based on the data size. If you are migrating
             from |mms| or |onprem| 5.0.9 or later, the migration process
             validates that the destination {+cluster+} has enough disk space
             based on the storage size of the compressed data. To learn more
             about data and storage sizes, see
             :manual:`dbStats </reference/command/dbStats/#output>`.
      
         - If validation fails, check the migration host, the validity of
           your external IP addresses or |cidr| block, and the link-token.
           Also check the database user credentials, your |tls-ssl|
           certificates, and the amount of disk storage size on the destination
           {+cluster+}.
         - If validation succeeds, click :guilabel:`Next`. The
           :guilabel:`Migrate from Ops Manager or Cloud Manager` page displays.
      
   .. step:: Start the migration.
      
      a. Review the report listing your source organization, project and
         cluster, and the migration host that the live migration process
         will use.
      #. Click :guilabel:`Start the Migration`.
      
   .. step:: Prepare to Cut Over.

      A lag time value displays during the final oplog tailing phase that
      represents the current lag between the source and destination {+clusters+}.
      This lag time may fluctuate depending on the rate of oplog generation
      on the source {+cluster+}, but should decrease over time as the live
      migration process copies the oplog entries to the destination {+cluster+}.

      a. When the lag timer and the :guilabel:`Prepare to Cutover` button
         turn green, click it to proceed to the next step.
      
   .. step:: Perform the cutover.
      
      When |service| detects that the source and destination {+clusters+} are
      nearly in sync, it starts an extendable 120 hour (5 day) timer to
      begin the cutover stage of the live migration procedure. If the
      120 hour period passes, |service| stops synchronizing with the source
      {+cluster+}. You can extend the time remaining by 24 hours by clicking
      :guilabel:`Extend time` below the :guilabel:`<time> left to cut over`
      timer.
      
      .. include:: /includes/import/migration-email-expiration.rst

      To finish migrating your MongoDB data to your |service| {+cluster+},
      complete the following steps on the
      :guilabel:`Your migration is almost complete!` page:
      
      a. Prepare to point to your |service| {+cluster+}. Copy the new
         :manual:`connection string </reference/connection-string/>` so that
         you can update it and point your application to the destination
         |service| {+cluster+}.
      
      #. Stop your application. This action ensures that no more writes occur
         on the source {+cluster+}.

      #. Wait for the optime gap to reach zero. When the counter reaches zero,
         the source and destination {+clusters+} are in sync.

      #. Click :guilabel:`Cut Over` to complete the migration process.
      
         If you click :guilabel:`Cancel` on the live migration progress bar,
         |service| stops synchronizing writes from the source {+cluster+}.
         All migrated data remains on your |service| {+cluster+}.
      
         You can click :guilabel:`Cut Over` again to allow |service| to
         complete the migration process.

      #. Wait until |service| configures your destination {+cluster+} and
         it is ready to use. For smaller {+clusters+}, this time is 3-5 minutes.
         For larger clusters, this time can extend up to 10 minutes or
         longer, depending on the {+cluster+} size and configuration.

         .. include:: /includes/import/migration-email-lm-in-progress.rst

      #. When you are ready to redirect writes to the destination {+cluster+} in |service|:

         i. Use the destination {+cluster+}'s connection string to connect to your application.

         #. .. include:: /includes/fact-legacy-live-migration-data-verification.rst
         #. Confirm that your application is working with the destination |service| {+cluster+}.
         #. Resume writes to the destination {+cluster+}.

         |service| performs these actions to complete the process:

         - Removes the MongoDB live migration server subnets from the IP access
           list on the destination {+cluster+}.
         - Removes the database user that live migration used to import data
           to the destination {+cluster+}.
         - Marks the migration process as complete.
