source/includes/steps-avs-tutorial-create-index-python.rst, before:

.. procedure:: 
   :style: normal 

   .. step:: Add the PyMongo Driver to your project.

      Add the PyMongo Driver as a dependency in your project:

      ..
         NOTE: If you edit this Python code, also update the Jupyter Notebooks
         at https://github.com/mongodb/docs-notebooks/blob/main/run-queries/semantic-search-and-or-filter.ipynb
         and https://github.com/mongodb/docs-notebooks/blob/main/run-queries/semantic-search-and-filter.ipynb

      .. code-block:: sh

         pip install pymongo

   .. step:: Define the index.

      Create a file named ``vector-index.py``. Copy and paste the following
      code into the file, and replace the ``<connectionString>``
      placeholder value.

      ..
         NOTE: If you edit this Python code, also update the Jupyter Notebooks
         at https://github.com/mongodb/docs-notebooks/blob/main/use-cases/rag.ipynb
         and https://github.com/mongodb/docs-notebooks/blob/main/run-queries/semantic-search-and-or-filter.ipynb
         and https://github.com/mongodb/docs-notebooks/blob/main/run-queries/semantic-search-and-filter.ipynb

      .. literalinclude:: /includes/avs-examples/index-management/create-index/filter-example.py
         :language: python
         :copyable: true
         :caption: vector-index.py
         :emphasize-lines: 6
         :linenos:

      This index definition indexes the ``plot_embedding`` field
      as the ``vector`` type and the ``genres`` and ``year`` fields
      as the ``filter`` type in an {+avs+} index. The ``plot_embedding``
      field contains embeddings created using OpenAI's
      ``text-embedding-ada-002`` embeddings model. The index definition
      specifies ``1536`` vector dimensions and measures similarity using
      ``dotProduct`` function.

   .. step:: Run the following command to create the index.

      .. io-code-block::
         :copyable: true 

         .. input:: 
            :language: shell 

            python vector-index.py

         .. output::
            :language: shell

            vector_index

Commit message:

DOCSP-44636 Update existing tutorials to use binData vectors (#6589)
* DOCSP-44636 Update existing tutorials to use binData vectors

* DOCSP-44636 updates for Mihir's feedback

* DOCSP-44636 updates for MP's feedback

* DOCSP-44636 updates for DH's feedback

* DOCSP-44636 updates for DH & MP feedback

* Apply suggestions from code review

Co-authored-by: davidhou17 <55004296+davidhou17@users.noreply.github.com>

* DOCSP-44636 updates for DH feedback

* DOCSP-46636 updates for build errors

---------

Co-authored-by: davidhou17 <55004296+davidhou17@users.noreply.github.com>

source/includes/steps-avs-tutorial-create-index-python.rst, after:

.. procedure:: 
   :style: normal 

   .. step:: Add the PyMongo Driver to your project.

      Add the PyMongo Driver as a dependency in your project:

      ..
         NOTE: If you edit this Python code, also update the Jupyter Notebooks
         at https://github.com/mongodb/docs-notebooks/blob/main/run-queries/semantic-search-and-or-filter.ipynb
         and https://github.com/mongodb/docs-notebooks/blob/main/run-queries/semantic-search-and-filter.ipynb

      .. code-block:: sh

         pip install pymongo

   .. step:: Define the index.

      Create a file named ``vector-index.py``. Copy and paste the following
      code into the file, and replace the ``<connectionString>``
      placeholder value.

      ..
         NOTE: If you edit this Python code, also update the Jupyter Notebooks
         at https://github.com/mongodb/docs-notebooks/blob/main/use-cases/rag.ipynb
         and https://github.com/mongodb/docs-notebooks/blob/main/run-queries/semantic-search-and-or-filter.ipynb
         and https://github.com/mongodb/docs-notebooks/blob/main/run-queries/semantic-search-and-filter.ipynb

      .. literalinclude:: /includes/avs-examples/index-management/create-index/filter-example.py
         :language: python
         :copyable: true
         :caption: vector-index.py
         :emphasize-lines: 6
         :linenos:

      This index definition indexes the ``plot_embedding`` field
      as the ``vector`` type and the ``genres`` and ``year`` fields
      as the ``filter`` type in an {+avs+} index. The ``plot_embedding``
      field contains embeddings created using OpenAI's
      ``text-embedding-ada-002`` embeddings model. The index definition
      specifies ``1536`` vector dimensions, measures similarity using
      ``dotProduct`` function, and enables automatic ``scalar``
      quantization for efficient processing of your vectors.

   .. step:: Run the following command to create the index.

      .. io-code-block::
         :copyable: true 

         .. input:: 
            :language: shell 

            python vector-index.py

         .. output::
            :language: shell

            vector_index
