source/includes/steps-avs-rag-huggingface-javascript.rst, before:

.. procedure::
   :style: normal

   .. step:: Set up the environment.

      .. include:: /includes/avs-rag-set-up-environment-node.rst

   .. step:: Create a function to generate vector embeddings.

      In this section, you create a function that:

      - Loads the `nomic-embed-text-v1 <https://huggingface.co/xenova/nomic-embed-text-v1>`__ 
        embedding model from Hugging Face's model hub.
      - Creates vector embeddings from the inputted data.

      Create a file called ``get-embeddings.js`` in your project, and paste
      the following code:

      .. literalinclude:: /includes/avs-examples/rag/get-embeddings.js
         :language: javascript

   .. step:: Ingest data into |service|.

      In this section, you :ref:`ingest <rag-ingestion>` sample 
      data into |service| that |llm|\s don't have access to.
      The following code uses the :ref:`LangChain integration <langchain-js>`
      and :driver:`Node.js driver </node/current/quick-start>` to do the
      following:
      
      - Load a PDF that contains a `MongoDB earnings report
        <https://investors.mongodb.com/node/12236/pdf>`__.
      - Split the data into chunks, specifying the *chunk size*
        (number of characters) and *chunk overlap* (number of overlapping
        characters between consecutive chunks). 
      - Create vector embeddings from the chunked data by using 
        the ``getEmbeddings`` function that you defined.
      - Store these embeddings alongside the chunked data in the
        ``rag_db.test`` collection in your |service| {+cluster+}.

      Create a file called ``ingest-data.js`` in your project, and paste the
      following code:

      .. literalinclude:: /includes/avs-examples/rag/ingest-data.js
         :language: javascript

      Then, run the following command to execute the code:

      .. code-block:: shell

         node --env-file=.env ingest-data.js

      .. tip:: 

         This code takes some time to run. You can view your vector embeddings
         as they're inserted by navigating to the ``rag_db.test`` collection
         :ref:`in the {+atlas-ui+} <atlas-ui-view-collections>`.
   
   .. step:: Use {+avs+} to retrieve documents.

      In this section, you set up {+avs+} to :ref:`retrieve <rag-retrieval>` 
      documents from your vector database. Complete the following steps:
      
      a. Create an {+avs+} index on your vector embeddings.
      
         Create a new file named ``rag-vector-index.js`` and paste the following code. 
         This code connects to your |service| {+cluster+} and creates an 
         index of the :ref:`vectorSearch <avs-types-vector-search>` type on 
         the ``rag_db.test`` collection.    

         .. literalinclude:: /includes/avs-examples/rag/create-index.js
            :language: javascript

         Then, run the following command to execute the code:

         .. code-block:: shell

            node --env-file=.env rag-vector-index.js
         
      #. Define a function to retrieve relevant data.

         Create a new file called ``retrieve-documents.js``.
         
         In this step, you create a retrieval function called
         ``getQueryResults`` that runs a query to retrieve relevant documents.
         It uses the ``getEmbeddings`` function to create embeddings from the
         search query. Then, it runs the query to return semantically-similar
         documents.

         To learn more, refer to :ref:`return-vector-search-results`.

         Paste this code into your file:

         .. literalinclude:: /includes/avs-examples/rag/retrieve-documents.js
            :language: javascript

      #. Test retrieving the data.
      
         Create a new file called ``retrieve-documents-test.js``. In this step,
         you check that the function you just defined returns relevant results.
         
         Paste this code into your file:

         .. literalinclude:: /includes/avs-examples/rag/retrieve-documents-test.js
            :language: javascript

         Then, run the following command to execute the code:

         .. io-code-block:: 
            :copyable: true

            .. input::
               :language: shell

               node --env-file=.env retrieve-documents-test.js

            .. output:: /includes/avs-examples/rag/retrieve-data-output.sh
               :language: console
               :visible: false

   .. step:: Generate responses with the |llm|.

      In this section, you :ref:`generate <rag-ingestion>` 
      responses by prompting an |llm| to use the retrieved documents 
      as context. This example uses the function you just defined to retrieve
      matching documents from the database, and additionally:
      
      - Accesses the `Mistral 7B Instruct <https://huggingface.co/mistralai/Mistral-7B-Instruct-v0.3>`__ 
        model from Hugging Face's model hub.
      - Instructs the |llm| to include the user's question and retrieved
        documents in the prompt.
      - Prompts the |llm| about MongoDB's latest AI announcements.
      
      Create a new file called ``generate-responses.js``, and paste the following
      code into it:

      .. literalinclude:: /includes/avs-examples/rag/generate-responses.js
         :language: javascript

      Then, run this command to execute the code. The generated response might
      vary.

      .. io-code-block:: 
         :copyable: true 

         .. input::
            :language: shell
      
            node --env-file=.env generate-responses.js

         .. output:: 
            
            MongoDB's latest AI announcements include the launch of the MongoDB
            AI Applications Program (MAAP), which provides customers with
            reference architectures, pre-built partner integrations, and
            professional services to help them build AI-powered applications
            quickly. Accenture has joined MAAP as the first global systems
            integrator, establishing a center of excellence focused on MongoDB
            projects. Additionally, Bendigo and Adelaide Bank have partnered
            with MongoDB to modernize their core banking technology using
            MongoDB's Relational Migrator and generative AI-powered
            modernization tools.

Commit message:

(DOCSP-44356) Update create embeddings > from existing data function. (#6787)
* (DOCSP-44356) Update create embeddings > from existing data function.

* (DOCSP-44356) Implement bulkWrite and insertMany

* (DOCSP-44356) Update output for new console log message.

* (DOCSP-44356) Fix ingeset-data.js output.

* (DOCSP-44346) Fix typo.

* (DOCSP-44356) @davidhou17 Review changes.

* (DOCSP-44356) Update import function name.

* (DOCSP-44346) Update getEmbeddings -> getEmbedding text introducing function.

* (DOCSP-44356) getEmbeddings() -> getEmbedding() in vector search query code.

* (DOCSP-44356) getEmbeddings() -> getEmbedding() in retrieve-documents.js

source/includes/steps-avs-rag-huggingface-javascript.rst, after:

.. procedure::
   :style: normal

   .. step:: Set up the environment.

      .. include:: /includes/avs-rag-set-up-environment-node.rst

   .. step:: Create a function to generate vector embeddings.

      In this section, you create a function that:

      - Loads the `nomic-embed-text-v1 <https://huggingface.co/xenova/nomic-embed-text-v1>`__ 
        embedding model from Hugging Face's model hub.
      - Creates vector embeddings from the inputted data.

      Create a file called ``get-embeddings.js`` in your project, and paste
      the following code:

      .. literalinclude:: /includes/avs-examples/rag/get-embeddings.js
         :language: javascript

   .. step:: Ingest data into |service|.

      In this section, you :ref:`ingest <rag-ingestion>` sample 
      data into |service| that |llm|\s don't have access to.
      The following code uses the :ref:`LangChain integration <langchain-js>`
      and :driver:`Node.js driver </node/current/quick-start>` to do the
      following:
      
      - Load a PDF that contains a `MongoDB earnings report
        <https://investors.mongodb.com/node/12236/pdf>`__.
      - Split the data into chunks, specifying the *chunk size*
        (number of characters) and *chunk overlap* (number of overlapping
        characters between consecutive chunks). 
      - Create vector embeddings from the chunked data by using 
        the ``getEmbedding`` function that you defined.
      - Store these embeddings alongside the chunked data in the
        ``rag_db.test`` collection in your |service| {+cluster+}.

      Create a file called ``ingest-data.js`` in your project, and paste the
      following code:

      .. literalinclude:: /includes/avs-examples/rag/ingest-data.js
         :language: javascript

      Then, run the following command to execute the code:

      .. io-code-block::
         :copyable: true

         .. input:: 
            :language: sh

            node --env-file=.env ingest-data.js

         .. output:: 
            :language: sh

            Generating embeddings and inserting documents...
            Count of documents inserted: 86

      .. tip:: 

         This code takes some time to run. You can view your vector embeddings
         as they're inserted by navigating to the ``rag_db.test`` collection
         :ref:`in the {+atlas-ui+} <atlas-ui-view-collections>`.
   
   .. step:: Use {+avs+} to retrieve documents.

      In this section, you set up {+avs+} to :ref:`retrieve <rag-retrieval>` 
      documents from your vector database. Complete the following steps:
      
      a. Create an {+avs+} index on your vector embeddings.
      
         Create a new file named ``rag-vector-index.js`` and paste the following code. 
         This code connects to your |service| {+cluster+} and creates an 
         index of the :ref:`vectorSearch <avs-types-vector-search>` type on 
         the ``rag_db.test`` collection.    

         .. literalinclude:: /includes/avs-examples/rag/create-index.js
            :language: javascript

         Then, run the following command to execute the code:

         .. code-block:: shell

            node --env-file=.env rag-vector-index.js
         
      #. Define a function to retrieve relevant data.

         Create a new file called ``retrieve-documents.js``.
         
         In this step, you create a retrieval function called
         ``getQueryResults`` that runs a query to retrieve relevant documents.
         It uses the ``getEmbedding`` function to create an embedding from the
         search query. Then, it runs the query to return semantically-similar
         documents.

         To learn more, refer to :ref:`return-vector-search-results`.

         Paste this code into your file:

         .. literalinclude:: /includes/avs-examples/rag/retrieve-documents.js
            :language: javascript

      #. Test retrieving the data.
      
         Create a new file called ``retrieve-documents-test.js``. In this step,
         you check that the function you just defined returns relevant results.
         
         Paste this code into your file:

         .. literalinclude:: /includes/avs-examples/rag/retrieve-documents-test.js
            :language: javascript

         Then, run the following command to execute the code:

         .. io-code-block:: 
            :copyable: true

            .. input::
               :language: shell

               node --env-file=.env retrieve-documents-test.js

            .. output:: /includes/avs-examples/rag/retrieve-data-output.sh
               :language: console

   .. step:: Generate responses with the |llm|.

      In this section, you :ref:`generate <rag-ingestion>` 
      responses by prompting an |llm| to use the retrieved documents 
      as context. This example uses the function you just defined to retrieve
      matching documents from the database, and additionally:
      
      - Accesses the `Mistral 7B Instruct <https://huggingface.co/mistralai/Mistral-7B-Instruct-v0.3>`__ 
        model from Hugging Face's model hub.
      - Instructs the |llm| to include the user's question and retrieved
        documents in the prompt.
      - Prompts the |llm| about MongoDB's latest AI announcements.
      
      Create a new file called ``generate-responses.js``, and paste the following
      code into it:

      .. literalinclude:: /includes/avs-examples/rag/generate-responses.js
         :language: javascript

      Then, run this command to execute the code. The generated response might
      vary.

      .. io-code-block:: 
         :copyable: true 

         .. input::
            :language: shell
      
            node --env-file=.env generate-responses.js

         .. output:: 
            
            MongoDB's latest AI announcements include the launch of the MongoDB
            AI Applications Program (MAAP), which provides customers with
            reference architectures, pre-built partner integrations, and
            professional services to help them build AI-powered applications
            quickly. Accenture has joined MAAP as the first global systems
            integrator, establishing a center of excellence focused on MongoDB
            projects. Additionally, Bendigo and Adelaide Bank have partnered
            with MongoDB to modernize their core banking technology using
            MongoDB's Relational Migrator and generative AI-powered
            modernization tools.
