source/includes/upgrade-path-onprem-upgrade.rst, before:

The version of your existing |onprem| installation determines the
upgrade path you must take to upgrade to |onprem| 4.4 or later.

.. important::

   - If you have an |onprem| 4.2 or later installation with more than one |onprem|
     host pointing to the same Application Database, you can upgrade
     |onprem| without incurring monitoring
     downtime. During this upgrade, |onprem| enters a state known as **Upgrade Mode**. 
     See :ref:`Upgrade Mode <upgrade-mode-for-ha-apps>`
     for more information.
  
   - To ensure a successful upgrade, you *must* follow the upgrade path 
     for your existing version to perform necessary database migrations.

   - To protect your data, |onprem| refuses to start direct upgrades
     from versions 1.8.x and 2.0.x to version 3.4 or later.

The following table lists upgrade paths for all versions:

.. list-table::
   :widths: 15 85
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Existing Version

     - Upgrade Path

   * - 5.0.x
     - Use :ref:`the procedure on this page <upgrade-om-procedure>` to 
       upgrade from |onprem| 5.0.x to the latest patch version of 5.0.

   * - 4.4.x
     - Use :ref:`the procedure on this page <upgrade-om-procedure>` to 
       upgrade from |onprem| 4.4.x to the latest patch version of 5.0.

       If your current |onprem| version precedes 4.4.13, MongoDB 
       recommends using the procedure to upgrade to 4.4.13 before 
       upgrading to the latest patch version of 5.0.
     
       |onprem| version 4.4.13 fixes a bug that would re-enable
       |onprem| instances for |api| writes during an upgrade.

       .. seealso::
          
          :ref:`Ops Manager 4.4.13 release notes <opsmgr-server-4.4.13>` 

   * - 4.2.x
     - Use :ref:`the procedure on this page <upgrade-om-procedure>` to 
       upgrade from |onprem| 4.2.x to 4.2.24 or later *first*, then to 
       the latest patch version of 4.4.

       .. include:: /includes/facts/upgrade-to-om-4-2-24.rst

   * - 4.0.x
     - Use the
       :om-v4.2:`v4.2 upgrade tutorial </tutorial/nav/upgrade-application>`
       to upgrade from |onprem| 4.0.x to version 4.2.24 or later.

       .. include:: /includes/facts/upgrade-to-om-4-2-24.rst

   * - 3.6.x
     - Use the
       :om-v4.0:`v4.0 upgrade tutorial </tutorial/nav/upgrade-application>`
       to upgrade from |onprem| 3.6.x to version 4.0.x.

   * - 3.4.x
     - Use the
       :om-v3.6:`v3.6 upgrade tutorial </tutorial/nav/upgrade-application>`
       to upgrade from |onprem| 3.4.x to version 3.6.x.

   * - 2.x or earlier
     - Use the
       :om-v3.4:`v3.4 upgrade tutorial </tutorial/nav/upgrade-application>`
       to upgrade from |onprem| 2.x or earlier.

There are no supported downgrade paths for |onprem|.

Commit message:

(DOCSP-23074) ops manager upgrade path recommends latest patch version of 4.4.x (#4423)
* (DOCSP-23074) <ops manager upgrade path recommends latest patch version of 4.4.x>

* (DOCSP-23074) <deleted redundant content>

* (DOCSP-23074) <re-added info regarding 4.4.13>

Co-authored-by: carrie.kim <carrie.kim@mongodb.com>

source/includes/upgrade-path-onprem-upgrade.rst, after:

The version of your existing |onprem| installation determines the
upgrade path you must take to upgrade to |onprem| 4.4 or later.

.. important::

   - If you have an |onprem| 4.2 or later installation with more than one |onprem|
     host pointing to the same Application Database, you can upgrade
     |onprem| without incurring monitoring
     downtime. During this upgrade, |onprem| enters a state known as **Upgrade Mode**. 
     See :ref:`Upgrade Mode <upgrade-mode-for-ha-apps>`
     for more information.
  
   - To ensure a successful upgrade, you *must* follow the upgrade path 
     for your existing version to perform necessary database migrations.

   - To protect your data, |onprem| refuses to start direct upgrades
     from versions 1.8.x and 2.0.x to version 3.4 or later.

The following table lists upgrade paths for all versions:

.. list-table::
   :widths: 15 85
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Existing Version

     - Upgrade Path

   * - 5.0.x
     - Use :ref:`the procedure on this page <upgrade-om-procedure>` to 
       upgrade from |onprem| 5.0.x to the latest patch version of 5.0.

   * - 4.4.x
     - Use :ref:`the procedure on this page <upgrade-om-procedure>` to 
       upgrade from |onprem| 4.4.x to 4.4.22 or later *first*, then to 
       the latest patch version of 5.0.
     
       |onprem| version 4.4.13 fixes a bug that would re-enable
       |onprem| instances for |api| writes during an upgrade.

       .. seealso::
          
          :ref:`Ops Manager 4.4 releases <opsmgr-server-4.4>`
          :ref:`Ops Manager 4.4.13 release notes <opsmgr-server-4.4.13>`

   * - 4.2.x
     - Use :ref:`the procedure on this page <upgrade-om-procedure>` to 
       upgrade from |onprem| 4.2.x to 4.2.24 or later *first*, then to 
       the latest patch version of 4.4.

       .. include:: /includes/facts/upgrade-to-om-4-2-24.rst

   * - 4.0.x
     - Use the
       :om-v4.2:`v4.2 upgrade tutorial </tutorial/nav/upgrade-application>`
       to upgrade from |onprem| 4.0.x to version 4.2.24 or later.

       .. include:: /includes/facts/upgrade-to-om-4-2-24.rst

   * - 3.6.x
     - Use the
       :om-v4.0:`v4.0 upgrade tutorial </tutorial/nav/upgrade-application>`
       to upgrade from |onprem| 3.6.x to version 4.0.x.

   * - 3.4.x
     - Use the
       :om-v3.6:`v3.6 upgrade tutorial </tutorial/nav/upgrade-application>`
       to upgrade from |onprem| 3.4.x to version 3.6.x.

   * - 2.x or earlier
     - Use the
       :om-v3.4:`v3.4 upgrade tutorial </tutorial/nav/upgrade-application>`
       to upgrade from |onprem| 2.x or earlier.

There are no supported downgrade paths for |onprem|.
