.. _cursor-maxTimeMS:

==================
cursor.maxTimeMS()
==================

.. default-domain:: mongodb

.. contents:: On this page
   :local:
   :backlinks: none
   :depth: 1
   :class: singlecol

Definition
----------

.. method:: cursor.maxTimeMS(<time limit>)

   .. include:: /includes/fact-mongosh-shell-method.rst

   Specifies a cumulative time limit in milliseconds for processing
   operations on a cursor.

   The :method:`~cursor.maxTimeMS()` method has the following prototype
   form:

   .. code-block:: javascript

      db.collection.find(
         { <query> },
         { <projection> }
      ).maxTimeMS( <milliseconds> )

   The :method:`~cursor.maxTimeMS()` method has the following
   parameter:

   .. list-table::
      :header-rows: 1
      :widths: 20 20 80
   
      * - Parameter
        - Type
        - Description

      * - ``milliseconds``
        - integer
        - Specifies a cumulative time limit in milliseconds for processing operations
          on the cursor.

.. important::

   :method:`~cursor.maxTimeMS()` is not related to the
   ``NoCursorTimeout`` query flag. :method:`~cursor.maxTimeMS()`
   relates to processing time, while ``NoCursorTimeout`` relates
   to idle time. A cursor's idle time does not contribute towards its
   processing time.

   The :method:`~cursor.maxAwaitTimeMS()` method sets a limit on how
   long a :ref:`tailable cursor <tailable-cursors-landing-page>` waits
   for the next response. It does not set a limit on total processing
   time.

Compatibility
-------------

This method is available in deployments hosted in the following environments: 

.. include:: /includes/fact-environments-atlas-only.rst

.. include:: /includes/fact-environments-atlas-support-all.rst

.. include:: /includes/fact-environments-onprem-only.rst

.. _cursor-maxtimems-behaviors:

Behaviors
---------

MongoDB targets operations for termination if the associated cursor
exceeds its allotted time limit. MongoDB terminates operations that
exceed their allotted time limit using the same mechanism as
:method:`db.killOp()`. MongoDB only terminates an operation at one of
its designated :term:`interrupt points <interrupt point>`.

MongoDB does not count network latency between the client and the
server towards a cursor's time limit. For a sharded cluster, however,
MongoDB does include the latency between the :binary:`~bin.mongos` and
:binary:`~bin.mongod` instances towards this time limit.

Queries that generate multiple batches of results continue to return
batches until the cursor exceeds its allotted time limit.

Session Idle Timeout Overrides ``maxTimeMS``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. include:: /includes/extracts/sessions-cursor-timeout.rst

For example, consider a :method:`~db.collection.find()` operation with
the :method:`~cursor.maxTimeMS` configured for a timeout of 31 minutes.
The server returns a cursor along with a batch of documents defined by
the :method:`cursor.batchSize()` of the :method:`~db.collection.find()`.
The session refreshes each time the application requests a new batch of
documents from the server. However, if the application takes longer than
30 minutes to process the current batch of documents, the session is
marked as expired and closed. When the server closes the session, it
also kills the cursor *despite* the cursor being configured with
:method:`~cursor.maxTimeMS` greater than 30 minutes. When the
application requests the next batch of documents, the server returns an
error.

For operations that return a cursor, if the cursor may be idle for
longer than 30 minutes, issue the operation within an explicit session
using :method:`Mongo.startSession()` and periodically refresh the
session using the :dbcommand:`refreshSessions` command. For example:

.. code-block:: javascript

   var session = db.getMongo().startSession()
   var sessionId = session
   sessionId  // show the sessionId

   var cursor = session.getDatabase("examples").getCollection("data").find().noCursorTimeout()
   var refreshTimestamp = new Date() // take note of time at operation start

   while (cursor.hasNext()) {
  
     // Check if more than 5 minutes have passed since the last refresh
     if ( (new Date()-refreshTimestamp)/1000 > 300 ) { 
       print("refreshing session")
       db.adminCommand({"refreshSessions" : [sessionId]})
       refreshTimestamp = new Date()
     }

     // process cursor normally
  
   }

In the example operation, the :method:`db.collection.find()` method is
associated with an explicit session. The cursor is configured with
:method:`cursor.maxTimeMS()` to keep the cursor open for at least 31
minutes. The ``while`` loop includes a block that uses
:dbcommand:`refreshSessions` to refresh the session every 5 minutes.
Since the session will never exceed the 30 minute idle timeout, the
cursor can remain open up to the configured
:method:`~cursor.maxTimeMS()`.

For MongoDB drivers, defer to the :driver:`driver documentation
</>` for instructions and syntax for creating sessions. 

.. seealso::

   :limit:`Session Idle Timeout`

Default Timeout for All Operations
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Starting in MongoDB 8.0, you can use the :parameter:`defaultMaxTimeMS`
cluster parameter to specify a default time limit for individual read
operations to complete. If a query specifies a
:method:`~cursor.maxTimeMS()` option, that value overrides the
``defaultMaxTimeMS`` value.

Examples
--------

.. example:: The following query specifies a time limit of 50 milliseconds:

   .. code-block:: javascript

      db.collection.find({description: /August [0-9]+, 1969/}).maxTimeMS(50)
