=============================
db.collection.findAndModify()
=============================

.. default-domain:: mongodb

.. contents:: On this page
   :local:
   :backlinks: none
   :depth: 1
   :class: singlecol

.. EDITS to db.collection.findAndModify.txt must be carried over
   (possibly w modifications) to the command findAndModify.txt and vice
   versa

Definition
----------

.. method:: db.collection.findAndModify(document)


   Modifies and returns a single document. By default, the returned
   document does not include the modifications made on the update. To
   return the document with the modifications made on the update, use
   the ``new`` option. The :method:`~db.collection.findAndModify()`
   method is a shell helper around the :dbcommand:`findAndModify`
   command.

   The :method:`~db.collection.findAndModify()` method has the following
   form:

   .. versionchanged:: 3.6

   .. code-block:: none

      db.collection.findAndModify({
          query: <document>,
          sort: <document>,
          remove: <boolean>,
          update: <document>,
          new: <boolean>,
          fields: <document>,
          upsert: <boolean>,
          bypassDocumentValidation: <boolean>,
          writeConcern: <document>,
          collation: <document>,
          arrayFilters: [ <filterdocument1>, ... ]
      });

   The :method:`db.collection.findAndModify()` method takes a document
   parameter with the following embedded document fields:

   .. |operation| replace:: :method:`~db.collection.findAndModify()`

   .. include:: /includes/apiargs/method-db.collection.findAndModify-param.rst

Return Data
-----------

For remove operations, if the query matches a document,
:method:`~db.collection.findAndModify()` returns the removed document.
If the query does not match a document to remove,
:method:`~db.collection.findAndModify()` returns ``null``.

For update operations, :method:`~db.collection.findAndModify()` returns
one of the following:

.. include:: /includes/extracts/fact-findandmodify-method-return.rst

Behavior
--------

.. _upsert-and-unique-index:

Upsert and Unique Index
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

When :method:`~db.collection.findAndModify()` includes the ``upsert:
true`` option **and** the query field(s) is not uniquely indexed, the
method could insert a document multiple times in certain circumstances.

In the following example, no document with the name ``Andy`` exists,
and multiple clients issue the following command:

.. code-block:: javascript

   db.people.findAndModify({
       query: { name: "Andy" },
       sort: { rating: 1 },
       update: { $inc: { score: 1 } },
       upsert: true
   })

Then, if these clients' :method:`~db.collection.findAndModify()`
methods finish the ``query`` phase before any command starts the
``modify`` phase, **and** there is no unique index on the ``name``
field, the commands may all perform an upsert, creating
multiple duplicate documents.

To prevent the creation of multiple duplicate documents with the same
name, create a :ref:`unique index <index-type-unique>` on the ``name``
field. With this unique index in place, the multiple methods will
exhibit one of the following behaviors:

- Exactly one :method:`~db.collection.findAndModify()`
  successfully inserts a new document.

- Zero or more :method:`~db.collection.findAndModify()` methods
  update the newly inserted document.

- Zero or more :method:`~db.collection.findAndModify()` methods fail
  when they attempt to insert documents with the same name. If the
  method fails due to the unique index constraint violation on the
  ``name`` field, you can retry the method. Absent a delete of the
  document, the retry should not fail.

Sharded Collections
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

When using :dbcommand:`findAndModify` in a :term:`sharded <sharding>`
environment, the ``query`` **must** contain the :term:`shard key` for
all operations against the sharded cluster for the *sharded* collections.

:dbcommand:`findAndModify` operations issued against :binary:`~bin.mongos`
instances for *non-sharded* collections function normally.

Document Validation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. include:: /includes/extracts/bypassDocumentValidation-db.collection.findAndModify.rst

.. _findAndModify-method-and-update:

Comparisons with the ``update`` Method
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. COMMENT |operation| is replaced above
.. |return-object| replace:: the pre-modified version of the document

.. include:: /includes/fact-findAndModify-update-comparison.rst

Examples
--------

Update and Return
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The following method updates and returns an existing document in the
people collection where the document matches the query criteria:

.. code-block:: javascript

   db.people.findAndModify({
       query: { name: "Tom", state: "active", rating: { $gt: 10 } },
       sort: { rating: 1 },
       update: { $inc: { score: 1 } }
   })

This method performs the following actions:

#. The ``query`` finds a document in the ``people`` collection
   where the ``name`` field has the value ``Tom``, the ``state``
   field has the value ``active`` and the ``rating`` field has a
   value :operator:`greater than <$gt>` 10.

#. The ``sort`` orders the results of the query in ascending order.
   If multiple documents meet the ``query`` condition, the method
   will select for modification the first document as ordered by
   this ``sort``.

#. The update :operator:`increments <$inc>` the value of the
   ``score`` field by 1.

#. The method returns the original (i.e. pre-modification) document
   selected for this update:

   .. code-block:: javascript

      {
        "_id" : ObjectId("50f1e2c99beb36a0f45c6453"),
        "name" : "Tom",
        "state" : "active",
        "rating" : 100,
        "score" : 5
      }

   To return the modified document, add the ``new:true`` option to
   the method.

   If no document matched the ``query`` condition, the method
   returns ``null``.

Upsert
~~~~~~

The following method includes the ``upsert: true`` option for the
``update`` operation to either update a matching document or, if no
matching document exists, create a new document:

.. code-block:: javascript

   db.people.findAndModify({
       query: { name: "Gus", state: "active", rating: 100 },
       sort: { rating: 1 },
       update: { $inc: { score: 1 } },
       upsert: true
   })


If the method finds a matching document, the method performs an update.

If the method does **not** find a matching document, the method creates
a new document. Because the method included the ``sort`` option, it
returns an empty document ``{ }`` as the original (pre-modification)
document:

.. code-block:: javascript

   { }

If the method did **not** include a ``sort`` option, the method returns
``null``.

.. code-block:: javascript

   null

Return New Document
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The following method includes both the ``upsert: true`` option and the
``new:true`` option. The method either updates a matching document and
returns the updated document or, if no matching document exists,
inserts a document and returns the newly inserted document in the
``value`` field.

In the following example, no document in the ``people`` collection
matches the ``query`` condition:

.. code-block:: none

   db.people.findAndModify({
       query: { name: "Pascal", state: "active", rating: 25 },
       sort: { rating: 1 },
       update: { $inc: { score: 1 } },
       upsert: true,
       new: true
   })

The method returns the newly inserted document:

.. code-block:: javascript

   {
      "_id" : ObjectId("50f49ad6444c11ac2448a5d6"),
      "name" : "Pascal",
      "rating" : 25,
      "score" : 1,
      "state" : "active"
   }

.. _findAndModify-wrapper-sorted-remove:

Sort and Remove
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

By including a ``sort`` specification on the ``rating`` field, the
following example removes from the ``people`` collection a single
document with the ``state`` value of ``active`` and the lowest
``rating`` among the matching documents:

.. code-block:: javascript

   db.people.findAndModify(
      {
        query: { state: "active" },
        sort: { rating: 1 },
        remove: true
      }
   )

The method returns the deleted document:

.. code-block:: javascript

   {
      "_id" : ObjectId("52fba867ab5fdca1299674ad"),
      "name" : "XYZ123",
      "score" : 1,
      "state" : "active",
      "rating" : 3
   }

Specify Collation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. include:: /includes/extracts/collation-versionadded.rst

A collection ``myColl`` has the following documents:

.. code-block:: javascript

   { _id: 1, category: "café", status: "A" }
   { _id: 2, category: "cafe", status: "a" }
   { _id: 3, category: "cafE", status: "a" }

The following operation includes the :ref:`collation <collation>`
option:

.. code-block:: javascript

   db.myColl.findAndModify({
       query: { category: "cafe", status: "a" },
       sort: { category: 1 },
       update: { $set: { status: "Updated" } },
       collation: { locale: "fr", strength: 1 }
   });

The operation returns the following document:

.. code-block:: javascript

   { "_id" : 1, "category" : "café", "status" : "A" }

.. _findAndModify-arrayFilters:

Specify ``arrayFilters`` for an Array Update Operations
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. include:: /includes/extracts/arrayFilters-blurb.rst

Update Elements Match ``arrayFilters`` Criteria
```````````````````````````````````````````````

Create a collection ``students`` with the following documents:

.. cssclass:: copyable-code

.. code-block:: javascript

   db.students.insert([
      { "_id" : 1, "grades" : [ 95, 92, 90 ] },
      { "_id" : 2, "grades" : [ 98, 100, 102 ] },
      { "_id" : 3, "grades" : [ 95, 110, 100 ] }
   ])

To modify all elements that are greater than or equal to ``100`` in the
``grades`` array, use the filtered positional operator
:update:`$[\<identifier\>]` with the ``arrayFilters`` option in the
:method:`db.collection.findAndModify` method:
   
.. cssclass:: copyable-code

.. code-block:: javascript

   db.students.findAndModify({
      query: { grades: { $gte: 100 } },
      update: { $set: { "grades.$[element]" : 100 } },
      arrayFilters: [ { "element": { $gte: 100 } } ]
   })

The operation updates the ``grades`` field for a single document, and
after the operation, the collection has the following documents:

.. code-block:: javascript
   :emphasize-lines: 2

   { "_id" : 1, "grades" : [ 95, 92, 90 ] }
   { "_id" : 2, "grades" : [ 98, 100, 100 ] }
   { "_id" : 3, "grades" : [ 95, 110, 100 ] }

Update Specific Elements of an Array of Documents
`````````````````````````````````````````````````

Create a collection ``students2`` with the following documents:

.. code-block:: javascript

.. code-block:: javascript

   db.students2.insert([
      {
         "_id" : 1,
         "grades" : [
            { "grade" : 80, "mean" : 75, "std" : 6 },
            { "grade" : 85, "mean" : 90, "std" : 4 },
            { "grade" : 85, "mean" : 85, "std" : 6 }
         ]
      },
      {
         "_id" : 2,
         "grades" : [
            { "grade" : 90, "mean" : 75, "std" : 6 },
            { "grade" : 87, "mean" : 90, "std" : 3 },
            { "grade" : 85, "mean" : 85, "std" : 4 }
         ]
      }
   ])

To modify the value of the ``mean`` field for all elements in the
``grades`` array where the grade is greater than or equal to ``85``,
use the filtered positional operator :update:`$[\<identifier\>]` with
the ``arrayFilters`` in the :method:`db.collection.findAndModify`
method::

.. cssclass:: copyable-code

.. code-block:: javascript

   db.students2.findAndModify({
      query: { },
      update: { $set: { "grades.$[elem].mean" : 100 } },
      arrayFilters: [ { "elem.grade": { $gte: 85 } } ] 
   })

The operation updates the ``grades`` field for a single document, and after the
operation, the collection has the following documents:

.. code-block:: javascript
   :emphasize-lines: 5-6

   {
      "_id" : 1,
      "grades" : [
         { "grade" : 80, "mean" : 75, "std" : 6 },
         { "grade" : 85, "mean" : 100, "std" : 4 },
         { "grade" : 85, "mean" : 100, "std" : 6 } 
       ]
   }
   {
      "_id" : 2,
      "grades" : [
         { "grade" : 90, "mean" : 75, "std" : 6 },
         { "grade" : 87, "mean" : 90, "std" : 3 },
         { "grade" : 85, "mean" : 85, "std" : 4 }
      ]
   }


.. seealso:: :ref:`perform-findAndModify-linearizable-reads`
