.. _atlasprivateendpoint-custom-resource:

========================================
``AtlasPrivateEndpoint`` Custom Resource
========================================

.. default-domain:: mongodb

.. contents:: On this page
   :local:
   :backlinks: none
   :depth: 2
   :class: singlecol

The ``AtlasPrivateEndpoint`` custom resource configures a
:ref:`private endpoint <private-endpoint-overview>` for a |service|
project. This allows you to connect your cloud provider to |service|
without sending information through a public network. Private
endpoints are unidirectional connections *to* |service| *from* your
virtual network.

.. include:: /includes/fact-ak8so-crds.rst

|ak8so| does one of the following actions using the |service|
:oas-bump-atlas-tag:`Private Endpoint Service API Resource
<private-endpoint-services>`:
   
- Creates a new private endpoint service.
- Updates an existing private endpoint service.

To learn more about implememting private endpoints in |ak8so|, see
:ref:`Manage Private Endpoints <ak8so-private-endpoint>`.

Examples
--------

.. _atlasprivateendpoint-example-basic:

Basic Example
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The following example shows an ``AtlasPrivateEndpoint`` custom resoure
that defines an |aws| private endpoint within the ``my-project`` project.

.. code-block::

   apiVersion: atlas.mongodb.com/v1
   kind: AtlasPrivateEndpoint
   metadata:
    name: my-atlas-pe1
   spec:
     projectRef:
       name: my-project
       namespace: my-operator-namespace
     provider: AWS
     region: US_EAST_1
     awsConfiguration:
       - id: vpcpe-xyz 

.. _atlasprivateendpoint-example-independent:

Independent CRD Example
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The following example shows an ``AtlasPrivateEndpoint``
:ref:`independent CRD <ak8so-independent-crd>` that defines the same
private endpoint defined in the :ref:`Basic Example
<atlasprivateendpoint-example-basic>`. This custom resource definition
allows you to create this private endpoint in a project you don't
manage in the same instance of |ak8so| with which you define this
resource. To enable independent operation, you must use an
``externalProjectRef`` instead of a ``projectRef``, and you must
supply a ``connectionSecret`` directly since this resource can't
inherit API credentials from its parent project.

.. code-block::

   apiVersion: atlas.mongodb.com/v1
   kind: AtlasPrivateEndpoint
   metadata:
    name: my-atlas-pe1
   spec:
     atlasRef:
       projectID: 66e2f2b621571b7e69a89b66
     credentials:
       name: atlas-connection-secret
     provider: AWS
     region: US_EAST_1
     awsConfiguration:
       - id: vpcpe-xyz

Parameters
----------

This section describes the ``AtlasPrivateEndpoint`` custom resource parameters available. 

``metadata.name``
   *Type*: string

   *Required*

   Name that the :ref:`atlasproject-custom-resource` uses to add this private endpoint to a project.

.. setting:: metadata.namespace

   *Type*: string

   *Optional*

   Namespace other than ``default`` that you want to contain the
   ``atlasPrivateEndpoint`` custom resource. If you define a custom
   namespace, you must add it to the
   :ref:`atlasproject-custom-resource` in the
   ``spec.privateEndpoint.privateEndpointRef.namespace`` field.

.. setting:: spec.awsConfiguration.id

   *Type*: string

   *Conditional*

   ID of the private endpoint network interface. This parameter is
   mandatory for and limited to |aws| private endpoints.

.. setting:: spec.azureConfiguration.id

   *Type*: string

   *Conditional*

   ID of the private endpoint network interface. This parameter is
   mandatory for and limited to |azure| private endpoints.

.. setting:: spec.azureConfiguration.ipAddress

   *Type*: string

   *Conditional*

   IP address of the private endpoint in your |azure| VNet. This
   parameter is mandatory for and limited to |azure| private
   endpoints.

.. setting:: spec.connectionSecret.name

   *Type*: string

   *Conditional*

   Name of the opaque |k8s-secret| that contains the organization ID
   and :ref:`API keys <about-org-api-keys>` that |ak8so| uses to
   :ref:`connect <ak8so-access-to-atlas-ref>` to |service|.  If
   unspecified, |ak8so| falls back to either:

   - The ``spec.connectionSecretRef.name`` parameter of the parent
     ``atlasProject``
   - The default ``global`` secret, if ``spec.connectionSecretRef.name``
     is undefined for the parent ``atlasProject``

   This parameter is mandatory for :ref:`independent CRDs
   <ak8so-independent-crd>`.
   
   .. include:: /includes/fact-ak8so-label-secret.rst

.. setting:: spec.externalProjectRef.id

   *Type*: string

   *Conditional*

   ID of the project to which the private endpoint belongs. You must
   specify the project ID of an existing :ref:`Atlas Project
   <manage-projects>`. This parameter is required for private endpoints
   that belong to projects managed by either:

   - A different instance of |ak8so|
   - Tooling other than |ak8so|

   For deployments who belong to projects managed by
   the same instance of |ak8so|, use ``spec.projectRef.name`` if you
   do not use ``spec.externalProjectRef.id``.

   A private endpoint can only belong to one project. To define the same
   private endpoint for multiple projects, create custom resource
   definitions for each project.

.. setting:: spec.gcpConfiguration.endpoints

   *Type*: array

   *Conditional*

   List of individual private endpoints that comprise this endpoint
   group. This parameter is mandatory for and limited to {+gcp+}
   private endpoints.

.. setting:: spec.gcpConfiguration.endpoints.[n].ipAddress

   *Type*: string

   *Conditional*

   IP address to which the given {+gcp+} private endpoint
   resolves. This parameter is mandatory for and limited to {+gcp+}
   private endpoints.

.. setting:: spec.gcpConfiguration.endpoints.[n].name

   *Type*: string

   *Conditional*

   Name uniquely identifying the given {+gcp+} private endpoint. This
   parameter is mandatory for and limited to {+gcp+} private
   endpoints.

.. setting:: spec.gcpConfiguration.groupName

   *Type*: string

   *Conditional*

   Name that uniquely identifies a set of {+gcp+} private
   endpoints. This parameter is mandatory for and limited to {+gcp+}
   private endpoints.

.. setting:: spec.gcpConfiguration.projectId

   *Type*: string

   *Conditional*

   Unique identifier for the {+gcp+} project to which your private
   endpoints belong.

.. setting:: spec.projectRef.name

   *Type*: string

   *Conditional*

   Name of the project to which the private endpoint belongs. You must
   specify an existing :ref:`atlasproject-custom-resource`. This
   parameter applies only to private endpoints that belong to projects
   managed by the same instance |ak8so|.

   For deployments that belong to projects managed by either:

   - a different instance of |ak8so|
   - tooling other than |ak8so|

   use ``spec.externalProjectRef.id``.

   A private endpoint can only belong to one project. To define the
   same private endpoint for multiple projects, create custom resource
   definitions for each project.

.. setting:: spec.projectRef.namespace

   *Type*: string

   *Conditional*

   Namespace in which the :ref:`atlasproject-custom-resource`
   specified in ``spec.projectRef.name`` exists.

   For deployments that belong to projects managed by either:

   - a different instance of |ak8so|
   - tooling other than |ak8so|

   do not set this parameter.

.. setting:: spec.provider

   *Type*: string

   *Required*

   Name of the cloud service provider for which to create a private
   endpoint service.

.. setting:: spec.region

   *Type*: string

   *Required*

   Cloud provider region in which to create a private endpoint
   service.


