.. _tutorial-install-windows:

=======================================
Install the Monitoring Agent on Windows
=======================================

Overview
--------

Installing the MMS Monitoring Agent on Windows requires downloading then
installing the latest software agent from the |mms|.

If you use Kerberos authentication, or your Monitoring Agent must connect
to the internet via proxy, you will need to continue to use our legacy Python
Monitoring Agent, also available through MMS.

.. include:: /includes/fact-new-go-agent.rst

Prerequisites
-------------

Requirements
++++++++++++

The latest Monitoring Agent software for Windows does not require Python or
special permissions.

.. include:: /includes/monitoring-install-reqs-windows.rst

Credentials
+++++++++++

.. include:: /includes/install-saas-registration.rst

Considerations
--------------

For environments with Kerberos or connections to the internet with a proxy, the
Monitoring agent distribution download includes a ``WINDOWS.txt`` file with
instructions for using the agent on Windows platforms. Before you can use the
agent on Windows platforms, you must ensure your system meets the system
requirements.

For environments with Kerberos or connections to the internet with a proxy,
install the latest version of Python 2.7.x if you do not have a 2.x-series
Python installation on your system. If your system supports 64-bit executable,
use the 64-bit version. Also install the correct PyMongo build for your Python
installation both in terms of version number (e.g .2.6, 2.7, etc.) and system
architecture (e.g. 32 or 64-bit.)

System Resources
++++++++++++++++

The Monitoring agent does have some resource requirements and should run on
separate systems to avoid impacting ``mongod`` and ``mongos`` performance. To
monitor five or fewer nodes, you can safely deploy on an AWS "micro instance."
Similarly, if you are only monitoring a small number of databases, you may be
able to deploy the agent on the system running the ``mongos`` process.

For environments with Kerberos or connections to the internet with a proxy,
PyMongo with the native extensions, which requires ``gcc``, provides
significant performance improvements.

Permissions
+++++++++++

For environments with Kerberos or connections to the internet with a proxy,
installing the Monitoring Agent on Windows requires the appropriate permissions
to enable unsigned script execution with PowerShell. As described below,
permissions must be set at the HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE level or HKEY_CURRENT_USER
level. In some cases, your system administrator may have used Group Policy to
block unsigned PowerShell scripts; contact your administrator if the
``Set-ExecutionPolicy`` commands below generate errors.

Procedure
---------

Install Agent Without Kerberos or Network Proxies
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

.. include:: /includes/steps/monitoring-install-windows-go.rst

Install Agent With Kerberos or Network Proxies
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

For environments with Kerberos or connections to the internet with a proxy,
follow these instructions to install the Monitoring Agent based on the
operating system, Python version, and other factors.

.. include:: /includes/steps/monitoring-install-windows.rst

Next Steps
----------

.. include:: /includes/monitoring-install-next-steps.rst

Also, consider reading the `PyMongo documentation
<http://api.mongodb.org/python/current/installation.html>`_.
