source/includes/api/automation-configuration/agentVersion.rst, before:

The ``agentVersion`` object is optional and specifies the version of
Automation Agent.

.. note::

   While you can update the Automation Agent version through this
   configuration property, it is recommended to use the
   :ref:`Update Agent Versions <update-monitoring-backup-versions>`
   endpoint to ensure your versions are up to date.

.. code-block:: cfg

   "agentVersion" : {
       "name" : <string>,
       "directoryUrl" : <string>
   }

.. list-table::
   :widths: 30 10 80
   :header-rows: 1
   :stub-columns: 1

   * - Name
     - Type
     - Description

   * - ``agentVersion``
     - object
     - *Optional* The version of the Automation Agent to run. If the
       running version does not match this setting, the Automation Agent
       downloads the specified version, shuts itself down, and starts the
       new version.

   * - | ``agentVersion``
       | ``.name``
     - string
     - The desired version of the Automation Agent (e.g. "1.8.1.1042-1").

   * - | ``agentVersion``
       | ``.directoryUrl``
     - string
     - The URL from which to download Automation Agent.

Commit message:

(DOCSP-10065, DOCSP-9423) Refactor Automation Config API

source/includes/api/automation-configuration/agentVersion.rst, after:

**agentVersion** specifies the version of the {+mdbagent+}.

.. note::

   While you can update the {+mdbagent+} version through this
   configuration property, you should use the
   :ref:`Update Agent Versions <update-monitoring-backup-versions>`
   endpoint to ensure your versions are up to date.

.. code-block:: json

   "agentVersion" : {
     "name" : "<string>",
     "directoryUrl" : "<string>"
   }

.. list-table::
   :widths: 20 14 11 55
   :header-rows: 1
   :stub-columns: 1

   * - Name
     - Type
     - Necessity
     - Description

   * - agentVersion
     - object
     - Optional
     - Version of the {+mdbagent+} to run. If the running version
       does not match this setting, the {+mdbagent+} downloads the
       specified version, shuts itself down, and starts the new
       version.

   * - agentVersion.name
     - string
     - Optional
     - Desired version of the {+mdbagent+}.

   * - agentVersion.directoryUrl
     - string
     - Optional
     - |url| from which to download the {+mdbagent+}.
