.. _avs20241202: 

02 December 2024 Release 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Supports scalar quantization feature to reduce the main memory
  requirements of vector search by around 75%. 
- Supports binary quantization feature to reduce the main memory
  requirements of vector search by around 97%. 
- Supports ingesting ``int1`` vectors using the new :manual:`BinData
  </reference/method/BinData/>` ``vector`` subtype.
- Supports |enn| search using ``int8`` and ``int1`` subtypes.

.. _avs20240918:

18 September 2024 Release
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Supports ingesting ``float32`` and ``int8`` vectors using the new 
  :ref:`BSON vector type <avs-bindata-vector-subtype>`.

.. _avs20240819:

19 August 2024 Release
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Supports :ref:`pre-filtering <vectorSearch-agg-pipeline-filter>` 
  using arrays with all operators.
- Supports using ``ObjectId`` with range operators in {+avs+} 
  pre-filters.
- Supports using ``UUID`` values with all operators in {+avs+} 
  pre-filters.
- Supports using the :query:`$not` operator in {+avs+} pre-filters.

.. _avs20240628:

28 June 2024 Release
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Upgrades to Java 21. Java 21 supports SIMD, which increases the
  amount of parallelism the CPU can do during vector comparisons.

  .. include:: /includes/search-shared/fact-fts-avs-java-21-upgrade.rst 

.. _avs20240620:

20 June 2024 Release
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Supports index creation on free (``M0``) and shared tiers (``M2`` and
  ``M5``) by using :driver:`MongoDB Drivers </>`. 
- Introduces ``exact`` flag in :pipeline:`$vectorSearch` to perform |enn| 
  search for small-scale, 
  multi-tenant, or recall benchmarking use cases. 
  To learn more, see :ref:`return-vector-search-results`.

.. _avs20240614:

14 June 2024 Release
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Supports :ref:`pre-filtering <vectorSearch-agg-pipeline-filter>` 
  your data by the :ref:`objectId <objectId-ref>` type.

.. _avs20240531:

31 May 2024 Release
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Introduces changes to the |fts| |api| endpoints. To learn more, see
  :atlas:`API Changelog for May 31 2024 Release
  </reference/api-resources-spec/changelog/>`. 

.. _avs20240510:

10 May 2024 Release
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Supports :ref:`pre-filtering <avs-types-filter>` data by date fields
  indexed as the ``filter`` type. 

.. _avs20240327:

27 March 2024 Release
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Updates {+avs+} queries to run concurrently by default on :ref:`search
  nodes <vectorSearch-concurrent-queries>`.

.. _avs20240305:

05 March 2024 Release
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Increases the vector dimension limit to 4096.
