.. _fts20231226:

26 December 2023 Release
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Supports using :ref:`equals <equals-ref>`, :ref:`in <in-ref>`, and :ref:`range <range-ref>`
  operators to perform exact matching and filtering on |bson|
  ``strings`` indexed as the |fts| :ref:`token <bson-data-types-token>`
  type. 

.. _fts20231204:

04 December 2023 Release
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Makes separate :ref:`Search Nodes <configure-search-nodes>` for 
  |aws| generally available for both your development and production
  deployments. To learn more, see :ref:`what-is-search-node`.
- Deprecates :ref:`knnVector <fts-data-types-knn-vector>` type and
  :ref:`knnBeta <knn-beta-ref>` operator. Instead, you can now use the new
  :ref:`vectorSearch <avs-types-vector-search>` index type and the
  :pipeline:`$vectorSearch` pipeline stage in both your development and 
  production deployments. To learn more, see :ref:`fts-vector-search`.
- Improves latency when there are no mixed types in the fields you use to
  :ref:`sort <sort-ref>` the results.
- Introduces low-CPU :ref:`search tiers <select-tiers-for-search-nodes>`.

.. _fts20231023:

23 October 2023 Release 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Introduces dedicated Search Nodes for |fts| as a Preview feature. This 
  feature and the corresponding documentation might change at any time
  during the Preview period. To learn more, see :ref:`what-is-fts`.
- Supports parallel queries across segments for :ref:`dedicated search
  nodes <configure-search-nodes>` to improve response times. To learn
  more, see :ref:`concurrent-ref`.

.. _fts20230926:

26 September 2023 Release
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Adds :atlascli:`atlas deployments </command/atlas-deployments>` in the {+atlas-cli+} so that you can work with
  :atlas:`Atlas Search </atlas-search>` and :atlas:`{+avs+} 
  </atlas-search/field-types/knn-vector>` throughout 
  the entire software development lifecycle from your local 
  environment to the cloud. To learn more, see 
  :atlascli:`Manage Local and Cloud Deployments from the Atlas CLI </atlas-cli-local-cloud>`.
- Supports implicitly and explicitly :ref:`sorting results by score <sort-ref>`.

.. _fts20230913:

13 September 2023 Release 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Supports :ref:`custom analyzer <custom-analyzers>` configuration in
  the {+atlas-ui+} Visual Editor. 
- Supports :ref:`token <bson-data-types-token>` type configuration in
  the {+atlas-ui+} Visual Editor.

.. _fts20230830:

30 August 2023 Release
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Performs system upgrade. You might notice some indexing and querying
  performance changes.

.. _fts20230731:

31 July 2023 Release
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Supports :ref:`highlighting <highlight-ref>` for fields if the fields
  are indexed under a parent field of type :ref:`document
  <bson-data-types-document>` for query predicates specified inside
  the ``embeddedDocument`` operator. 
- Starts :ref:`initial sync <troubleshoot-initial-sync>` automatically
  in certain scenarios with sharding. 
- Fixes a bug that caused changes to :ref:`token
  <bson-data-types-token>` field mapping to be ignored.

.. _fts20230710:

10 July 2023 Release
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Adds the :ref:`sort <sort-ref>` option, which supports 
  sorting in ascending or descending order on fields that you 
  define in your |fts| index for sorting. 

  .. note:: 

     |fts| :ref:`sort <sort-ref>` option is available in sharded
     {+clusters+} only if you run MongoDB v6.0+.

- Limits the :ref:`knnBeta <knn-beta-limitation>` operator as 
  a top-level operator.
- Introduces the ability to perform text, wildcard, regular 
  expression, fuzzy, and range searches on ``string`` fields 
  by using the :ref:`queryString <querystring-ref>` operator.  
- Improves performance of :pipeline:`$search` with :pipeline:`$limit`. 
- For |service| {+clusters+} running MongoDB 6.0.8 or later on ``M10``
  or higher {+clusters+}, introduces ability to create and manage |fts|
  indexes from :binary:`~bin.mongosh` and :driver:`NodeJS </node>`
  driver.  

  .. note:: 

     This release does not allow using the {+mongosh+} command 
     or driver helper methods to 
     :ref:`create <ref-create-index-programmatically>`, :ref:`retrieve
     <ref-view-index-programmatically>`, :ref:`edit
     <ref-edit-index-programmatically>`, or :ref:`delete
     <ref-delete-index-programmatically>` |fts| indexes on ``M0``,
     ``M2``, or ``M5`` |service| {+clusters+}. 

.. _fts20230622:

22 June 2023 Release
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Provides preview of :ref:`vector search <knn-beta-ref>` to store,
  index, and query vectors using |fts|. 

.. _fts20230614:

14 June 2023 Release
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Adds support for restoring |fts| indexes from {+Cloud-Backup+} snapshots
  of M10 or larger {+clusters+}.

.. _fts20230607:

07 June 2023 Release
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Supports :ref:`tracking <fts-tracking-ref>` search terms in queries
  and viewing :ref:`query analytics <fts-query-analytics>` for tracked
  search terms in the {+atlas-ui+} for ``M10`` or higher |service|
  {+clusters+}. 

.. _fts20230526:

26 May 2023 Release
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Adds the :ref:`in <in-ref>` operator, which performs a
  search for an array of values and returns documents where the value of
  the field equals any value in the specified array. 
- Changes the ``operator`` option of the :ref:`facet <fts-facet-ref>`
  collector to be optional. ``facet`` queries that you specify
  without an :ref:`operator <operators-ref>` run over all indexed
  documents. 

.. _fts20230425:

25 April 2023 Release
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Adds ``scoreDetails`` boolean option to :ref:`retrieve a detailed
  breakdown of the score <fts-score-details>` for each document in the
  query results. 

.. _fts20230301:

01 March 2023 Release
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Introduces the ability to edit your |fts| query in the :ref:`Search
  Tester <ref-edit-index>`.

.. _fts20230131:

31 January 2023 Release
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Adds the following :ref:`language analyzers <ref-language-analyzers>`:

  - ``lucene.polish``
  - ``lucene.portuguese``
  - ``lucene.smartcn``
  - ``lucene.sorani``
  - ``lucene.thai``
  - ``lucene.turkish``

- Adds the following :ref:`token filters <token-filters-ref>`:
  
  - :ref:`englishPossessive-tf-ref`
  - :ref:`flattenGraph-tf-ref`
  - :ref:`kStemming-tf-ref`
  - :ref:`porterStemming-tf-ref`
  - :ref:`spanishPluralStemming-tf-ref`
  - :ref:`stempel-tf-ref`
  - :ref:`wordDelimiterGraph-tf-ref`

- Supports the :ref:`number data type <bson-data-types-number>` using
  the :ref:`equals <equals-ref>` operator.
- Supports :ref:`synonyms <synonyms-ref>` for sharded clusters.

.. _fts20230125:

25 January 2023 Release
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Supports the :ref:`embeddedDocuments <bson-data-types-embedded-documents>`
  type in the |fts| visual editor configuration mode in the {+atlas-ui+}.
