.. meta::
   :robots: nosnippet

====================
Monitor App Activity
====================

.. facet::
   :name: genre 
   :values: reference

.. meta:: 
   :description: Monitor your App activity through logs of application events, metrics, and notifications.

.. contents:: On this page
   :depth: 2

.. toctree::
   :titlesonly:
   :hidden:

   View Application Logs </activity/view-logs>
   Forward Logs to a Service </activity/forward-logs>
   Activity Feed & Alerts </activity/alerts>
   Log Types </logs>

App Services keeps a log of application events, records metrics that
summarize your App's usage and performance, and publishes notifications
to your Atlas project's activity feed.

.. _logs:

App Logs
--------

App Services logs all incoming requests and application events. These
events include API requests, Device Sync operations, Trigger execution,
User Authentication, and other activities. App Services saves logs for
{+log-retention-time+}, after which they are deleted.

To learn how to view, filter, and analyze your application logs, see
:ref:`View Application Logs <view-logs>`.

A log entry describes a single application event of a given type. Each
entry contains information about the event and how the system responded.
For example, a log may include the IP address that issued a request as
well as a summary of the data access permissions that were evaluated and
assigned to serve the request.

Apps log the following event types:

- :ref:`Authentication <logs-authentication>`, including user
  creation, login, and deletion.

- :ref:`Change Stream <logs-change-stream>`, including any time a user
  opens or closes a stream of change events.

- :ref:`Device Sync <logs-sync>`, including all events related to
  data synchronization between client devices and MongoDB Atlas.

- :ref:`Endpoint <logs-endpoint>`, including any time a request is made
  to a Data API endpoint.

- :ref:`Function <logs-function>`, including both Atlas Functions
  as well as individual queries to linked MongoDB Atlas data sources 
  made using the Atlas Device SDK.

- :ref:`Service <logs-service>`, including HTTPS endpoints and
  service action calls issued from the Atlas Device SDK.

- :ref:`Schema <logs-schema>`, including any events related to
  changes to an application's schema.

- :ref:`Trigger <logs-trigger>`, including Database Triggers,
  Authentication Triggers, and Scheduled Triggers.

Error Logs
~~~~~~~~~~

All App Services log entries have one of two possible statuses:

- ``OK``, which represents a normal event that succeeded without an error.

- ``Error``, which represents an event that did not run successfully for
  any reason.

For example, App Services would log an error for any of the following
events:

- You attempt to access data stored in Atlas for which there is no
  applicable rule.

- You throw or fail to handle an error or promise rejection in an Atlas
  Function.

- You call ``context.services.get()`` for a service which does not exist.

Log Filters
~~~~~~~~~~~

For performance reasons, App Services limits individual queries to a
maximum of 100 log entries per page. You can filter entries by type,
status, timestamp, user, and request ID to return only logs that are
relevant to your query.

Log Lines
~~~~~~~~~

Functions can log information using JavaScript's ``console.log()``
method. App Services stringifies each console log and stores each string
as a single line. App Services truncates lines to 512 bytes in length.
For ASCII character sets, this translates to 512 characters; depending
on the character set you use, you may see truncation at lower character
counts.

App Services saves only the first 25 log lines for a given log entry.

Log Retention
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

App Services retains logs for {+log-retention-time+}, after which they
are deleted.

If you require logs older than {+log-retention-time+}, you can
automatically :ref:`forward logs <forward-logs>` to another service. You
can also download a dump of currently available logs from the UI or use
the :admin-api-endpoint:`Admin API Logging endpoints <tag/logs>` to
fetch logs before they expire.

App Metrics
-----------

App Services constantly measures your App's usage and records aggregate
metrics over time. You can access and use the metrics to assess your
App's performance and see trends in how your App is used. For example,
you can see how much time your App spent performing computations or find
the 95th percentile response time for Data API requests.

To learn more about which metrics are available and how to access them,
see :ref:`App Services Metrics <app-services-metrics>`.

Atlas Alerts
------------

Your App publishes alert events to your Atlas project's activity feed.
App Services alerts for administrative events, such as when someone
deploys changes to an App or when something like a Trigger or Device
Sync process fails and cannot restart automatically. To learn more about
your App's alerts, see :ref:`Activity Feed & Atlas App Services Alerts <alerts>`.
