.. index:: DBRef
.. index:: database references
.. index:: references
.. _database-references:

===================
Database References
===================

.. default-domain:: mongodb

MongoDB does not support joins. In MongoDB some data is
*denormalized*, or stored with related data in :term:`documents
<document>` to remove the need for joins. However, in some cases it
makes sense to store related information in separate documents,
typically in different collections or databases.

MongoDB applications use one of two methods for relating documents:

#. :ref:`Manual references <document-references>` where you save the
   ``_id`` field of one document in another document as a reference.
   Then your application can run a second query to return the related
   data. These references are simple and sufficient for most use
   cases.

#. :ref:`DBRefs <dbref>` are references from one document to another
   using the value of the first document's ``_id`` field, collection name,
   and, optionally, its database name. By including these names, DBRefs
   allow documents located in multiple collections to be more easily linked
   with documents from a single collection.

   To resolve DBRefs, your application
   must perform additional queries to return the referenced
   documents. Many :doc:`drivers </applications/drivers>` have helper
   methods that form the query for the DBRef automatically. The
   drivers [#official-driver]_ do not *automatically* resolve DBRefs
   into documents.

   DBRefs provide a common format and type to represent relationships among
   documents. The DBRef format also provides common semantics for representing
   links between documents if your database must interact with
   multiple frameworks and tools.

Unless you have a compelling reason to use DBRefs, use manual
references instead.

.. [#official-driver] Some community supported drivers may have
   alternate behavior and may resolve a DBRef into a document
   automatically.

.. _document-references:

Manual References
-----------------

Background
~~~~~~~~~~

Using manual references is the practice of including one
:term:`document's <document>` ``_id`` field in another document. The
application can then issue a second query to resolve the referenced
fields as needed.

Process
~~~~~~~

Consider the following operation to insert two documents, using the
``_id`` field of the first document as a reference in the second
document:

.. code-block:: javascript

   original_id = ObjectId()

   db.places.insert({
       "_id": original_id,
       "name": "Broadway Center",
       "url": "bc.example.net"
   })

   db.people.insert({
       "name": "Erin",
       "places_id": original_id,
       "url":  "bc.example.net/Erin"
   })

Then, when a query returns the document from the ``people`` collection
you can, if needed, make a second query for the document referenced by
the ``places_id`` field in the ``places`` collection.

Use
~~~

For nearly every case where you want to store a relationship between
two documents, use :ref:`manual references <document-references>`. The
references are simple to create and your application can resolve
references as needed.

The only limitation of manual linking is that these references do not
convey the database and collection names. If you have documents in a
single collection that relate to documents in more than one
collection, you may need to consider using :ref:`DBRefs <dbref>`.

.. _dbref:

DBRefs
------

Background
~~~~~~~~~~

DBRefs are a convention for representing a :term:`document`, rather
than a specific reference type. They include the name of the
collection, and in some cases the database name, in addition to the
value from the ``_id`` field.

Format
~~~~~~

DBRefs have the following fields:

.. describe:: $ref

   The ``$ref`` field holds the name of the collection where the
   referenced document resides.

.. describe:: $id

   The ``$id`` field contains the value of the ``_id`` field in the
   referenced document.

.. describe:: $db

   *Optional.*

   Contains the name of the database where the referenced document
   resides.

   Only some drivers support ``$db`` references.

.. example::

   DBRef documents resemble the following document:

   .. code-block:: javascript

      { "$ref" : <value>, "$id" : <value>, "$db" : <value> }

   Consider a document from a collection that stored a DBRef in a
   ``creator`` field:

   .. code-block:: javascript

      {
        "_id" : ObjectId("5126bbf64aed4daf9e2ab771"),
        // .. application fields
        "creator" : {
                        "$ref" : "creators",
                        "$id" : ObjectId("5126bc054aed4daf9e2ab772"),
                        "$db" : "users"
                     }
      }

   The DBRef in this example points to a document in the ``creators``
   collection of the ``users`` database that has
   ``ObjectId("5126bc054aed4daf9e2ab772")`` in its ``_id`` field.

.. note::

   The order of fields in the DBRef matters, and you must use the above
   sequence when using a DBRef.

Support
~~~~~~~

**C++**
   The C++ driver contains no support for DBRefs. You can transverse
   references manually.

**C#**
   The C# driver provides access to DBRef objects with the
   :api:`MongoDBRef Class <csharp/current/html/46c356d3-ed06-a6f8-42fa-e0909ab64ce2.htm>`
   and supplies the :api:`FetchDBRef Method <csharp/current/html/1b0b8f48-ba98-1367-0a7d-6e01c8df436f.htm>`
   for accessing these objects.

**Java**
   The :api:`DBRef <java/current/com/mongodb/DBRef.html>` class
   provides supports for DBRefs from Java.

**JavaScript**
   The :program:`mongo` shell's :doc:`JavaScript </reference/method>`
   interface provides a DBRef.

**Perl**
   The Perl driver contains no support for DBRefs.  You can transverse
   references manually or use the `MongoDBx::AutoDeref
   <http://search.cpan.org/dist/MongoDBx-AutoDeref/>`_ CPAN module.

**PHP**
   The PHP driver supports DBRefs, including the optional ``$db`` reference, through
   `The MongoDBRef class <http://www.php.net/manual/en/class.mongodbref.php/>`_.

**Python**
   The Python driver provides the :api:`DBRef class <python/current/api/bson/dbref.html>`,
   and the :api:`dereference method </python/current/api/pymongo/database.html#pymongo.database.Database.dereference>`
   for interacting with DBRefs.

**Ruby**
   The Ruby Driver supports DBRefs using the :api:`DBRef class </ruby/current/BSON/DBRef.html>`
   and the :api:`deference method </ruby/current/Mongo/DB.html#dereference-instance_method>`.

Use
~~~
In most cases you should use the :ref:`manual reference
<document-references>` method for connecting two or more related
documents. However, if you need to reference documents from multiple
collections, consider using DBRefs.