source/includes/ai-integrations/semantic-kernel/sk-set-up-environment.rst, before:

.. procedure::
   :style: normal

   .. step:: Install and import dependencies.

      a. Run the following command in your notebook to install the semantic kernel in your environment.

         .. code-block:: python

            pip install --quiet --upgrade semantic-kernel openai motor

      #. Run the following code to import the required packages:

         .. code-block:: python

            import getpass, openai
            import semantic_kernel as sk
            from semantic_kernel.connectors.ai.open_ai import (OpenAIChatCompletion, OpenAITextEmbedding)
            from semantic_kernel.connectors.memory.mongodb_atlas import MongoDBAtlasMemoryStore
            from semantic_kernel.core_plugins.text_memory_plugin import TextMemoryPlugin
            from semantic_kernel.memory.semantic_text_memory import SemanticTextMemory
            from semantic_kernel.prompt_template.input_variable import InputVariable
            from semantic_kernel.prompt_template.prompt_template_config import PromptTemplateConfig
            from pymongo import MongoClient
            from pymongo.operations import SearchIndexModel

   .. step:: Define environmental variables.

      Run the following code and provide the following when prompted:
      
      - Your OpenAI API Key.
      - Your |service| {+cluster+}'s |srv| :manual:`connection string
        </reference/connection-string/#find-your-mongodb-atlas-connection-string>`.
        
      .. code-block:: python

         OPENAI_API_KEY = getpass.getpass("OpenAI API Key:")
         ATLAS_CONNECTION_STRING = getpass.getpass("MongoDB Atlas SRV Connection String:")

      .. note:: 

         .. include:: /includes/fact-connection-string-format-drivers.rst

Commit message:

(DOCSP-46076): Vector Search: Add comments for writers to update related Jupyter Notebooks (#6671)
* Test comment syntax

* Add comments for create embeddings page

* Add comments for the manage indexes page

* Add comments for the Run Queries page

* Add comments for quantization page

* Add comments to the RAG page

* Add comments for the Semantic Search page

* Add comments to Local RAG page

* Add comments to Llamaindex page

* Add comments to Semantic Kernel integration page

* Add comments to the Haystack integration page

* Add comments for LangChain pages

source/includes/ai-integrations/semantic-kernel/sk-set-up-environment.rst, after:

.. procedure::
   :style: normal

   .. step:: Install and import dependencies.

      a. Run the following command in your notebook to install the semantic kernel in your environment.

         ..
            NOTE: If you edit this Python code, also update the Jupyter Notebook
            at https://github.com/mongodb/docs-notebooks/blob/main/integrations/semantic-kernel.ipynb

         .. code-block:: python

            pip install --quiet --upgrade semantic-kernel openai motor

      #. Run the following code to import the required packages:

         ..
            NOTE: If you edit this Python code, also update the Jupyter Notebook
            at https://github.com/mongodb/docs-notebooks/blob/main/integrations/semantic-kernel.ipynb

         .. code-block:: python

            import getpass, openai
            import semantic_kernel as sk
            from semantic_kernel.connectors.ai.open_ai import (OpenAIChatCompletion, OpenAITextEmbedding)
            from semantic_kernel.connectors.memory.mongodb_atlas import MongoDBAtlasMemoryStore
            from semantic_kernel.core_plugins.text_memory_plugin import TextMemoryPlugin
            from semantic_kernel.memory.semantic_text_memory import SemanticTextMemory
            from semantic_kernel.prompt_template.input_variable import InputVariable
            from semantic_kernel.prompt_template.prompt_template_config import PromptTemplateConfig
            from pymongo import MongoClient
            from pymongo.operations import SearchIndexModel

   .. step:: Define environmental variables.

      Run the following code and provide the following when prompted:
      
      - Your OpenAI API Key.
      - Your |service| {+cluster+}'s |srv| :manual:`connection string
        </reference/connection-string/#find-your-mongodb-atlas-connection-string>`.

      ..
         NOTE: If you edit this Python code, also update the Jupyter Notebook
         at https://github.com/mongodb/docs-notebooks/blob/main/integrations/semantic-kernel.ipynb

      .. code-block:: python

         OPENAI_API_KEY = getpass.getpass("OpenAI API Key:")
         ATLAS_CONNECTION_STRING = getpass.getpass("MongoDB Atlas SRV Connection String:")

      .. note:: 

         .. include:: /includes/fact-connection-string-format-drivers.rst
