.. _2.6-upgrade-authorization-model:

=============================================
Upgrade User Authorization Data to 2.6 Format
=============================================

.. default-domain:: mongodb

MongoDB 2.6 includes significant changes to the authorization model,
which requires changes to the way that MongoDB stores users'
credentials. As a result, in addition to upgrading MongoDB processes,
if your deployment uses authentication and authorization, after
upgrading all MongoDB process to 2.6 you must also upgrade the
authorization model.

Considerations
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Complete all other Upgrade Requirements
```````````````````````````````````````

.. include:: /includes/important-upgrade-auth-model-prerequisites.rst

Timing
``````

.. include:: /includes/fact-auth-upgrade-recommendation.rst

If you decide to upgrade the user authorization
model immediately instead of waiting the recommended "burn in"
period, then for sharded clusters, you must wait at least 10 seconds
after upgrading the sharded clusters to run the authorization
upgrade script.

Replica Sets
````````````

For a replica set, it is only necessary to run the upgrade process on
the :term:`primary` as the changes will automatically replicate to
the secondaries.

Sharded Clusters
````````````````

For a sharded cluster, connect to a :program:`mongos` and run the
upgrade procedure to upgrade the cluster's authorization data. By
default, the procedure will upgrade the authorization data of the
shards as well.

To override this behavior, run the upgrade command with the
additional parameter ``upgradeShards: false``. If you choose to
override, you must run the upgrade procedure on the :program:`mongos`
first, and then run the procedure on the :term:`primary` members of
each shard.

For a sharded cluster, do **not** run the upgrade process directly
against the :doc:`config servers
</core/sharded-cluster-config-servers>`. Instead, perform the upgrade
process using one :program:`mongos` instance to interact with the
config database.

Requirements
~~~~~~~~~~~~

To upgrade the authorization model, you must have a user in the
``admin`` database with the role :authrole:`userAdminAnyDatabase`.

Procedure
~~~~~~~~~

.. include:: /includes/steps/2.6-upgrade-authorization.rst

Result
~~~~~~

All users a 2.6 system are stored in the :data:`admin.system.users`
collection. To manipulate these users use the :doc:`user management
methods </reference/method/js-user-management>`.

The upgrade procedure copies the version 2.4 ``admin.system.users``
collection to ``admin.system.backup_users``.

The upgrade procedure leaves the version 2.4
``<database>.system.users`` collection(s) intact.
