===========================
db.collection.dropIndexes()
===========================

.. default-domain:: mongodb

.. contents:: On this page
   :local:
   :backlinks: none
   :depth: 1
   :class: singlecol


Definition
----------

.. method:: db.collection.dropIndexes()


   .. include:: /includes/fact-mongosh-shell-method.rst


   Drops the specified index or indexes (except the index on the
   ``_id`` field) from a collection.

   You can use the method to:

   - Drop all but the ``_id`` index from a collection.

     .. code-block:: javascript

        db.collection.dropIndexes()

   - Drop a specified index from a collection. To specify the index,
     you can pass the method either:
   
     - The index specification document (unless the index is a
       :doc:`text </core/index-text>` index in which case, use the
       index name to drop):

       .. code-block:: javascript
    
          db.collection.dropIndexes( { a: 1, b: 1 } )

     - The index name:

       .. code-block:: javascript

          db.collection.dropIndexes( "a_1_b_1" )

       .. tip::

          To get the names of the indexes, use the
          :method:`db.collection.getIndexes()` method.

   - Drop specified indexes from a collection. (Available starting in
     MongoDB 4.2). To specify multiple indexes to drop, pass the method
     an array of index names:

     .. code-block:: javascript

        db.collection.dropIndexes( [ "a_1_b_1", "a_1", "a_1__id_-1" ] )

     If the array of index
     names includes a non-existent index, the method errors without
     dropping any of the specified indexes.

     .. tip::

        To get the names of the indexes, use the
        :method:`db.collection.getIndexes()` method.

   The :method:`db.collection.dropIndexes()` method takes the following
   optional parameter:

   .. list-table::
      :header-rows: 1
      :widths: 20 20 80

      * - Parameter

        - Type

        - Description

      * - ``indexes``

        - string or document or array of strings

        - Optional. Specifies the index or indexes to drop. 

          **To drop all but the _id index from the collection**,
          omit the parameter.

          **To drop a single index**, specify either the index name, the
          index specification document (unless the index is a
          :doc:`text </core/index-text>` index), or an array of the
          index name. To drop a :doc:`text </core/index-text>` index,
          specify the index name or an array of the index name instead
          of the index specification document.

          **To drop multiple indexes** (Available starting in MongoDB
          4.2), specify an array of the index names.


   The :method:`db.collection.dropIndexes()` is a wrapper around the
   :dbcommand:`dropIndexes` command.
   
Behavior
--------

Cannot Drop ``Ready`` Indexes During In-Progress Index Builds
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. include:: /includes/fact-5.0-dropindexes-inprog.rst

Kill related queries only
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. include:: /includes/extracts/fact-method-dropIndexes-query-behavior.rst

Resource Locking
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. versionchanged:: 4.2

.. include:: /includes/extracts/dropIndexes-method-resource-lock.rst

Index Names
~~~~~~~~~~~

If the method is passed an array of index names that includes a
non-existent index, the method errors without dropping any of the
specified indexes.

``_id`` Index
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

You cannot drop the default index on the ``_id`` field.

text Indexes
~~~~~~~~~~~~

To drop a :doc:`text </core/index-text>` index, specify the index name
instead of the index specification document.

.. _dropIndexes-method-index-builds:

Aborts In-Progress Index Builds
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. versionadded:: 4.4

   If an index specified to :method:`db.collection.dropIndexes()` is
   still building, :method:`~db.collection.dropIndexes()` attempts to
   abort the in-progress build. Aborting an index build has the same
   effect as dropping the built index. Prior to MongoDB 4.4,
   :method:`~db.collection.dropIndexes()` would return an error if the
   collection had any in-progress index builds.

For replica sets, run :method:`~db.collection.dropIndexes()` on the
:term:`primary`. The primary aborts the index build and creates an
associated "abortIndexBuild" oplog entry. Secondaries which replicate
the "abortIndexBuild" oplog entry abort the in-progress index build and
discard the build job. See :ref:`index-build-process` for detailed
documentation on the index build process and the specific timing for
terminating an in-progress index build.

The indexes specified to :method:`~db.collection.dropIndexes()` must be
the entire set of in-progress builds associated to a single
:dbcommand:`createIndexes` or :method:`db.collection.createIndexes()`
operation. To drop a specific index out of a set of related in-progress
builds, wait until the index builds complete and specify that index to
:method:`~db.collection.dropIndexes()`

For example, a :dbcommand:`createIndexes` /
:method:`~db.collection.createIndexes()` operation creates three
indexes. Assuming all three index builds are in-progress,
:method:`~db.collection.dropIndexes()` must specify all three indexes to
abort the index builds and drop the indexes.

Use :dbcommand:`currentOp` to identify the index builds associated to a
:dbcommand:`createIndexes` / :method:`~db.collection.createIndexes()`
operation. See :ref:`currentOp-cmd-index-creation` for an example.

Hidden Indexes
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Starting in version 4.4, MongoDB adds the ability to hide or unhide
indexes from the query planner. By hiding an index from the planner,
users can evaluate the potential impact of dropping an index without
actually dropping the index. 

If after the evaluation, the user decides to drop the index, the user
can drop the hidden index; i.e. you do not need to unhide it first to
drop it.

If, however, the impact is negative, the user can unhide the index
instead of having to recreate a dropped index. And because indexes are
fully maintained while hidden, the indexes are immediately available
for use once unhidden.

For more information on hidden indexes, see :doc:`/core/index-hidden`.
