.. _ref-multi-analyzers:

==============
Multi Analyzer
==============

.. default-domain:: mongodb

.. meta::
   :keywords: multi analyzer, multi search analyzer, multiple analyzers, multiple search analyzers, multi object, alternate analyzer, alternate search analyzer, analyzers, multi path option
   :description: Use the ``multi`` object to specify alternate analyzers to also index the field with. Then you can search with the default or the alternate analyzer.

You can use the ``multi`` object in your index definition to specify 
alternate analyzers with which to also index the field. When you index 
a field with alternate analyzers in addition to the default analyzer, 
you can search the collection with either the default or the alternate 
analyzer. This page demonstrates how to specify alternate analyzers in 
your :ref:`index definition <ref-index-definitions>` using ``multi``. 
To learn more about searching with alternate analyzers, see 
:ref:`ref-path`.

.. include:: /includes/fact-multi-path-option.rst

Example 
-------

The following example index definition specifies an index on the
``title`` field in the ``sample_mflix.movies`` collection using the 
``standard`` analyzer. The index definition also specifies 
:ref:`keyword analyzer <ref-keyword-analyzer>` as an alternate analyzer 
for the ``title`` field, with the name ``keywordAnalyzer``. The 
:ref:`ref-keyword-analyzer` analyzer indexes the entire field as a 
single term, so it returns results only if the search term and the 
specified field match exactly. 

If you loaded the collection on your {+cluster+}, you can create the
example index using the Visual Editor or the |json| Editor in the
{+atlas-ui+}. After you select your preferred configuration method,
select the database and collection. 

.. tabs:: 

   .. tab:: Visual Editor 
      :tabid: vib

      1. Click :guilabel:`Refine Your Index` to configure your index.
      #. In the :guilabel:`Field Mappings` section, click
         :guilabel:`Add Field` to open the :guilabel:`Add Field Mapping`
         window. 
      #. Select ``title`` from the :guilabel:`Field Name` dropdown.
      #. Click the :guilabel:`Data Type` dropdown and select
         :guilabel:`String` if it isn't already selected. 
      #. Expand :guilabel:`String Properties` and make the following 
         changes: 

         .. list-table:: 
            :stub-columns: 1

            * - Index Analyzer 
              - Select ``lucene.standard`` from the dropdown if it isn't
                already selected. 
      
            * - Search Analyzer 
              - Select ``lucene.standard`` from the dropdown if it isn't
                already selected.

            * - Index Options 
              - Use the default ``offsets``.

            * - Store 
              - Use the default ``true``.

            * - Ignore Above 
              - Keep the default setting.

            * - Norms 
              - Use the default ``include``.
      
      #. Click :guilabel:`Add Multi Field` to configure another analyzer
         on the ``title`` field.
      #. Enter ``keywordAnalyzer`` in the :guilabel:`Multi Field Name`
         field. 
      #. Make the following changes to the :guilabel:`Multi Field
         Properties` : 

         .. list-table:: 
            :stub-columns: 1

            * - Index Analyzer 
              - Select ``lucene.keyword`` from the dropdown if it isn't
                already selected. 
      
            * - Search Analyzer 
              - Select ``lucene.keyword`` from the dropdown if it isn't
                already selected.

            * - Index Options 
              - Use the default ``offsets``.

            * - Store 
              - Use the default ``true``.

            * - Ignore Above 
              - Keep the default setting.

            * - Norms 
              - Use the default ``include``.
      
      #. Click :guilabel:`Add`.
      #. Click :guilabel:`Save Changes`.
      #. Click :guilabel:`Create Search Index`.

   .. tab:: JSON Editor 
      :tabid: jsonib

      1. Replace the default index definition with the following index definition.

         .. code-block:: json
            :copyable: true
            :emphasize-lines: 8-13
            :linenos:

            {
              "mappings": {
                "dynamic": false,
                "fields": {
                  "title": {
                    "type": "string",
                    "analyzer": "lucene.standard",
                    "multi": {
                      "keywordAnalyzer": {
                        "type": "string",
                        "analyzer": "lucene.keyword"
                      }
                    }
                  }
                }
              }
            }

      #. Click :guilabel:`Next`.
      #. Click :guilabel:`Create Search Index`.

The following query uses the alternate analyzer, named 
``keywordAnalyzer``, to search for exact matches on the string ``The 
Count of Monte Cristo``. 

.. io-code-block:: 
   :copyable: true

   .. input:: 
      :language: javascript
      :linenos:

      db.movies.aggregate([
        {
          "$search": {
            "text": {
              "query": "The Count of Monte Cristo",
              "path": { "value": "title", "multi": "keywordAnalyzer" }
            }
          }
        }, 
        { 
          "$project": { 
            "title": 1,
            "year": 1,
            "_id": 0 
          } 
        }
      ])

   .. output:: 
      :language: json

      { "title" : "The Count of Monte Cristo", "year" : 1934 }
      { "title" : "The Count of Monte Cristo", "year" : 1954 }
      { "title" : "The Count of Monte Cristo", "year" : 1998 }

By contrast, the same query using the ``standard`` analyzer would find 
all the movies with the word ``the`` or ``Count`` or ``of`` or ``Monte``
or ``Cristo`` in the title.

|fts| creates the following tokens (searchable terms) for the documents
in the results using the analyzers: 

.. list-table:: Tokens
   :header-rows: 1
   :stub-columns: 1

   * - Title 
     - Standard Analyzer Tokens 
     - Keyword Analyzer Tokens

   * - ``The Count of Monte Cristo`` 
     - ``the``, ``count``, ``of``, ``monte``, ``cristo``
     - ``The Count of Monte Cristo``
