======================================================
Create an Administrative User with Unrestricted Access
======================================================

.. default-domain:: mongodb

Overview
--------

Despite the principle of least privilege for each user, you might in some
situations need a user with unrestricted access. In such cases, you can create
an administrative superuser with access to all database :ref:`resources
<resource-document>` and :ref:`actions <security-user-actions>`.

In a production deployment, users need only sufficient credentials to perform
their required operations. A user should not have unused permissions.
Administrators, for example, should have privileges targeted to their areas of
oversight and no more. While no user has all access, an administrator with the
:authaction:`createUser` and :authaction:`grantRole` actions can grant any
access needed.

In unique cases, however, you might need a user with access to all operations.
For those situations, MongoDB provides the :authrole:`root` :doc:`system role
</reference/system-defined-roles>`. The :authrole:`root` role gives access to
all the privileges of all the other system roles combined. This document
describes how to create an administrative user with the :authrole:`root` role.

For descriptions of the access each system role provides, see
:ref:`system-defined roles <system-user-roles>.

Prerequisites
-------------

.. include:: /includes/access-create-user.rst

The :authrole:`userAdmin` and :authrole:`userAdminAnyDatabase` system roles
both grant the actions.

A user authenticated using the :ref:`localhost exception
<localhost-exception>` also has those actions on the ``admin`` database. The
localhost exception applies if no users yet exist on the ``admin`` database
and if a user connects to the :program:`mongod` or :program:`mongos` from a
client running on the same system. For more information, see
:ref:`localhost-exception`.

Procedure
---------

.. include:: /includes/steps/add-root-user.rst
