===============================================
Configure ``mongod`` and ``mongos`` for TLS/SSL
===============================================

.. default-domain:: mongodb

.. contents:: On this page
   :local:
   :backlinks: none
   :depth: 1
   :class: singlecol

Overview
--------

This document helps you to configure a new MongoDB instance to support
TLS/SSL. For instructions on upgrading a cluster currently not using
TLS/SSL to using TLS/SSL, see :doc:`/tutorial/upgrade-cluster-to-ssl`
instead.

.. include:: /includes/fact-tls-libraries.rst

.. note::

   - .. include:: /includes/fact-tls-1.0.rst

   - MongoDB's TLS/SSL encryption only allows the use of strong TLS/SSL
     ciphers with a minimum of 128-bit key length for all connections.

   - The *Linux 64-bit legacy x64* builds of MongoDB do **not** include
     support for TLS/SSL.

.. |binary| replace:: MongoDB

Prerequisites
-------------

.. important::

   .. include:: /includes/extracts/security-prereq-configure-ssl.rst

Certificate Authorities
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. include:: /includes/fact-ssl-certificate-authorities.rst

``mongod`` and ``mongos`` Certificate Key File
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

When establishing a TLS/SSL connection, the
:binary:`~bin.mongod`/:binary:`~bin.mongos` presents a certificate key
file to its clients to establish its identity. [#FIPS]_ The certificate
key file contains a public key certificate and its associated private
key, but only the public component is revealed to the client.

MongoDB can use any valid TLS/SSL certificate issued by a certificate
authority, or a self-signed certificate. If you use a self-signed
certificate, although the communications channel will be encrypted to
prevent eavesdropping on the connection, there will be *no* validation
of server identity. This leaves you vulnerable to a man-in-the-middle
attack. Using a certificate signed by a trusted certificate authority
will permit MongoDB drivers to verify the server's identity.

In general, avoid using self-signed certificates unless the network is
trusted.

With regards to certificates for replica set and sharded cluster
members, it is advisable to use different certificates on different
servers. This minimizes exposure of the private key and allows for
hostname validation.

.. [#FIPS]

   For FIPS mode, ensure that the certificate is FIPS-compliant (i.e
   uses a FIPS-compliant algorithm) and the private key meets the
   PKCS#8 standard. If you need to convert a private key to PKCS#8
   format, various conversion tools exist, such as ``openssl pkcs8``
   and others.

.. _configure-tls:

Procedures (Using ``net.tls`` Settings)
---------------------------------------

.. note::

   Starting in version 4.2, MongoDB provides ``net.tls`` settings (and
   corresponding command-line options) that corresponds to the
   ``net.ssl`` settings (and their corresponding command-line
   options). The ``net.tls`` settings provide **identical** functionality as
   the ``net.ssl`` options since MongoDB has always supported TLS
   1.0 and later.

   The procedures in this section use the ``net.tls`` settings. For
   procedures using the ``net.ssl`` alias, see :ref:`configure-ssl`.

.. _ssl-mongod-ssl-cert-key:

Set Up ``mongod`` and ``mongos`` with TLS/SSL Certificate and Key
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The following section configures
:binary:`~bin.mongod`/:binary:`~bin.mongos` to use TLS/SSL connections.
With these TLS/SSL settings,
:binary:`~bin.mongod`/:binary:`~bin.mongos` presents its certificate
key file to the client. However, the
:binary:`~bin.mongod`/:binary:`~bin.mongos` does not require a
certificate key file from the client to verify the client's identity.
To require client's certificate key file, see
:ref:`ssl-mongod-ca-signed-ssl-cert-key` instead.

.. note::

   The procedure uses the ``net.tls`` settings (available starting in
   MongoDB 4.2). For procedures using the ``net.ssl`` settings, see
   :ref:`configure-ssl`.

To use TLS/SSL connections, include the following :ref:`TLS/SSL
settings <net-tls-conf-options>` in your
:binary:`~bin.mongod`/:binary:`~bin.mongos` instance's
:ref:`configuration file <conf-file>`:


.. tabs::

   tabs:
   
     - id: pem
       name: "PEMKeyFile (Linux/Windows/macOS)"
       content: |
         .. list-table::
            :class: border-table
            :header-rows: 1
            :widths: 30 70
   
            * - Setting
              - Notes

            * - :setting:`net.tls.mode`

              - Set to ``requireTLS``.

                This setting restricts each server to use only TLS/SSL
                encrypted connections. You can also specify either the
                value ``allowTLS`` or ``preferTLS`` to set up the use
                of mixed TLS/SSL modes on a port. See
                :setting:`net.tls.mode` for details.

            * - :setting:`net.tls.certificateKeyFile` 

              - Set to the path of the file that contains the TLS/SSL
                certificate and key.
  
                The :binary:`~bin.mongod`/:binary:`~bin.mongos`
                instance presents this file to its clients to establish
                the instance's identity.


         For example, consider the following :ref:`configuration file
         <conf-file>` for a :binary:`~bin.mongod` instance:

         .. code-block:: yaml
            :emphasize-lines: 1-4

            net:
               tls:
                  mode: requireTLS
                  certificateKeyFile: /etc/ssl/mongodb.pem
            systemLog:
               destination: file
               path: "/var/log/mongodb/mongod.log"
               logAppend: true
            storage:
               dbPath: "/var/lib/mongodb"
            processManagement:
               fork: true
            net:
               bindIp: localhost,mongodb0.example.net
               port: 27017

     - id: certstore
       name: "System SSL Certificate Store(Windows/macOS)"
       content: |
         Starting in MongoDB 4.0, you can use system SSL certificate stores for
         Windows and macOS. To use the system SSL certificate store, specify
         :setting:`net.tls.certificateSelector` instead of specifying the
         certificate key file.

         .. list-table::
            :class: border-table
            :header-rows: 1
            :widths: 30 70
   
            * - Setting
              - Notes

            * - :setting:`net.tls.mode`

              - Set to ``requireTLS``.

                This setting restricts each server to use only TLS/SSL
                encrypted connections. You can also specify either the
                value ``allowTLS`` or ``preferTLS`` to set up the use
                of mixed TLS/SSL modes on a port. See
                :setting:`net.tls.mode` for details.

            * - :setting:`net.tls.certificateSelector` 

              - Set to the property (either ``subject`` or
                ``thumbprint``) and value.

                This setting is used to select the certificate. See
                :setting:`net.tls.certificateSelector` for details.

         For example, consider the following :ref:`configuration file
         <conf-file>` for a :binary:`~bin.mongod` instance:

         .. code-block:: yaml
            :emphasize-lines: 1-4

            net:
               tls:
                  mode: requireTLS
                  certificateSelector: subject="<CertificateCommonName>"
            systemLog:
               destination: file
               path: "/var/log/mongodb/mongod.log"
               logAppend: true
            storage:
               dbPath: "/var/lib/mongodb"
            processManagement:
               fork: true
            net:
               bindIp: localhost,mongodb0.example.net
               port: 27017

A :binary:`~bin.mongod` instance that uses the above configuration
can only use TLS/SSL connections:

.. code-block:: sh

   mongod --config <path/to/configuration/file>

That is, clients must specify TLS/SSL connections. See
:ref:`tls-client-connection-only` for more information on
connecting with TLS/SSL.

.. seealso::
   You can also configure :binary:`~bin.mongod` and
   :binary:`~bin.mongos` using command-line options instead of the
   configuration file:
   
   - For :binary:`~bin.mongod`, see: :option:`--tlsMode <mongod --tlsMode>`;
     :option:`--tlsCertificateKeyFile <mongod --tlsCertificateKeyFile>`; and
     :option:`--tlsCertificateSelector <mongod --tlsCertificateSelector>`.

   - For  :binary:`~bin.mongos`, see: :option:`--tlsMode <mongos --tlsMode>`;
     :option:`--tlsCertificateKeyFile <mongos --tlsCertificateKeyFile>`; and
     :option:`--tlsCertificateSelector <mongos --tlsCertificateSelector>`.

.. _ssl-mongod-ca-signed-ssl-cert-key:

Set Up ``mongod`` and ``mongos`` with Client Certificate Validation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The following section configures
:binary:`~bin.mongod`/:binary:`~bin.mongos` to use TLS/SSL connections
and perform client certificate validation. With these TLS/SSL settings:

- :binary:`~bin.mongod`/:binary:`~bin.mongos` presents its certificate
  key file to the client for verification.

- :binary:`~bin.mongod`/:binary:`~bin.mongos` requires a certificate
  key file from the client to verify the client's identity.

.. note::

   The procedure uses the ``net.tls`` settings (available starting in
   MongoDB 4.2). For procedures using the ``net.ssl`` settings, see
   :ref:`configure-ssl`.

To use TLS/SSL connections and perform client certificate validation,
include the following :ref:`TLS/SSL settings <net-tls-conf-options>` in
your :binary:`~bin.mongod`/:binary:`~bin.mongos` instance's
:ref:`configuration file <conf-file>`:

.. note::

   Starting in MongoDB 4.0, you can use system SSL certificate stores for
   Windows and macOS. To use the system SSL certificate store, specify
   :setting:`net.ssl.certificateSelector` instead of specifying the
   certificate key file.

.. list-table::
   :class: border-table
   :header-rows: 1
   :widths: 30 70

   * - Setting
     - Notes

   * - :setting:`net.tls.mode`

     - Set to ``requireTLS``.

       This setting restricts each server to use only TLS/SSL
       encrypted connections. You can also specify either the
       value ``allowTLS`` or ``preferTLS`` to set up the use
       of mixed TLS/SSL modes on a port. See
       :setting:`net.tls.mode` for details.

   * - :setting:`net.tls.certificateKeyFile` 

     - Set to the path of the file that contains the TLS/SSL
       certificate and key.

       The :binary:`~bin.mongod`/:binary:`~bin.mongos`
       instance presents this file to its clients to establish
       the instance's identity.

   * - :setting:`net.tls.CAFile`
   
     - Set to the path of the file that contains the certificate chain
       for verifying client certificates.

       The :binary:`~bin.mongod`/:binary:`~bin.mongos` instance use
       this file to verify certificates presented by its clients. The
       certificate chain includes the certificate of the root
       Certificate Authority.

For example, consider the following :ref:`configuration file
<conf-file>` for a :binary:`~bin.mongod` instance:

.. code-block:: yaml
   :emphasize-lines: 1-5

   net:
      tls:
         mode: requireTLS
         certificateKeyFile: /etc/ssl/mongodb.pem
         CAFile: /etc/ssl/caToValidateClientCertificates.pem
   systemLog:
      destination: file
      path: "/var/log/mongodb/mongod.log"
      logAppend: true
   storage:
      dbPath: "/var/lib/mongodb"
   processManagement:
      fork: true
   net:
      bindIp: localhost,mongodb0.example.net
      port: 27017

A :binary:`~bin.mongod` instance that uses the above configuration
can only use TLS/SSL connections and requires valid certificate from
its clients:

.. code-block:: sh

   mongod --config <path/to/configuration/file>

That is, clients must specify TLS/SSL connections and presents its
certificate key file to the instance. See
:ref:`mongo-connect-require-client-certificates-tls` for more
information on connecting with TLS/SSL.

.. seealso::
   You can also configure :binary:`~bin.mongod` and
   :binary:`~bin.mongos` using command-line options instead of the
   configuration file:
   
   - For :binary:`~bin.mongod`, see :option:`--tlsMode <mongod --tlsMode>`,
     :option:`--tlsCertificateKeyFile <mongod --tlsCertificateKeyFile>`, and
     :option:`--tlsCAFile <mongod --tlsCAFile>`.

   - For  :binary:`~bin.mongos`, see :option:`--tlsMode <mongos --tlsMode>`,
     :option:`--tlsCertificateKeyFile <mongos --tlsCertificateKeyFile>`,
     :option:`--tlsCAFile <mongos --tlsCAFile>`.


Block Revoked Certificates for Clients
``````````````````````````````````````

.. note::

   The procedure uses the ``net.tls`` settings (available starting in
   MongoDB 4.2). For procedures using the ``net.ssl`` settings, see
   :ref:`configure-ssl`.

To prevent clients with revoked certificates from connecting to the
:binary:`~bin.mongod` or :binary:`~bin.mongos` instance, you can use:

- Online Certificate Status Protocol (OCSP)
      Starting in version 4.4, to check for certificate revocation,
      MongoDB :parameter:`enables <ocspEnabled>` the use of OCSP
      (Online Certificate Status Protocol) by default as an alternative
      to specifying a CRL file or using the :setting:`system SSL
      certificate store <net.tls.certificateSelector>`.

      In versions 4.0 and 4.2, the use of OCSP is available only
      through the use of :setting:`system certificate store
      <net.tls.certificateSelector>` on Windows or macOS.
      
- Certificate Revocation List (CRL)
      To specify a CRL file, include
      :setting:`net.tls.CRLFile` set to a file that contains revoked
      certificates.

      For example:

      .. code-block:: yaml
         :emphasize-lines: 6

         net:
           tls:
             mode: requireTLS
             certificateKeyFile: /etc/ssl/mongodb.pem
             CAFile: /etc/ssl/caToValidateClientCertificates.pem
             CRLFile: /etc/ssl/revokedCertificates.pem

      Clients who presents certificates that are listed in the
      :file:`/etc/ssl/revokedCertificates.pem` will not be able to connect.

      .. seealso::
         You can also configure the revoked certificate list using the command-line option.

         - For :binary:`~bin.mongod`, see :option:`--tlsCRLFile <mongod --tlsCRLFile>`.
         - For :binary:`~bin.mongos`, see :option:`--tlsCRLFile <mongos --tlsCRLFile>`.

.. _ssl-mongod-weak-certification:

Validate Only if a Client Presents a Certificate
````````````````````````````````````````````````

In most cases, it is important to ensure that clients present valid
certificates. However, if you have clients that cannot present a client
certificate or are transitioning to using a certificate, you may only
want to validate certificates from clients that present a certificate.

.. note::

   The procedure uses the ``net.tls`` settings (available starting in
   MongoDB 4.2). For procedures using the ``net.ssl`` settings, see
   :ref:`configure-ssl`.

To bypass client certificate validation for clients that do not present
a certificate, include
:setting:`net.tls.allowConnectionsWithoutCertificates` set to ``true``.

For example:

.. code-block:: yaml
   :emphasize-lines: 6

   net:
     tls:
       mode: requireTLS
       certificateKeyFile: /etc/ssl/mongodb.pem
       CAFile: /etc/ssl/caToValidateClientCertificates.pem
       allowConnectionsWithoutCertificates: true

A :binary:`~bin.mongod`/:binary:`~bin.mongos` running with these
settings allows connection from:

- Clients that do not present a certificate.

- Clients that present a valid certificate.

.. note::

   If the client presents a certificate, the certificate must be a
   valid certificate.

   All connections, including those that have not presented
   certificates, are encrypted using TLS/SSL.

See :ref:`ssl-clients` for more information on TLS/SSL connections for
clients.

.. seealso::

   You can also configure using the command-line options:

   - For :binary:`~bin.mongod`, see
     :option:`--tlsAllowConnectionsWithoutCertificates <mongod
     --tlsAllowConnectionsWithoutCertificates>`.

   - For :binary:`~bin.mongos`, see
     :option:`--tlsAllowConnectionsWithoutCertificates <mongos
     --tlsAllowConnectionsWithoutCertificates>`.


.. _ssl-disallow-protocols:

Disallow Protocols
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. note::

   The procedure uses the ``net.tls`` settings (available starting in
   MongoDB 4.2). For procedures using the ``net.ssl`` settings, see
   :ref:`configure-ssl`.

To prevent MongoDB servers from accepting incoming connections that use
specific protocols, include :setting:`net.tls.disabledProtocols` set to
the disallowed protocols.

For example, the following configuration prevents
:binary:`~bin.mongod`/:binary:`~bin.mongos` from accepting incoming
connections that use either ``TLS1_0`` or ``TLS1_1``

.. code-block:: yaml
   :emphasize-lines: 6

   net:
     tls:
       mode: requireTLS
       certificateKeyFile: /etc/ssl/mongodb.pem
       CAFile: /etc/ssl/caToValidateClientCertificates.pem
       disabledProtocols: TLS1_0,TLS1_1

.. seealso::

   You can also configure using the command-line options:

   - For :binary:`~bin.mongod`, see :option:`--tlsDisabledProtocols
     <mongod --tlsDisabledProtocols>`.

   - For :binary:`~bin.mongos`, see :option:`--tlsDisabledProtocols
     <mongos --tlsDisabledProtocols>`.

.. _ssl-certificate-password:

TLS/SSL Certificate Passphrase
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

If the certificate key files for
:binary:`~bin.mongod`/:binary:`~bin.mongos` are encrypted, sinclude
:setting:`net.tls.certificateKeyFilePassword` set to the passphrase.

.. tip::

   Starting in MongoDB 4.2, to avoid specifying the passphrase in
   cleartext, you can use an :ref:`expansion value
   <externally-sourced-values>` in the configuration file.

.. seealso::

   You can also configure using the command-line options:

   - For :binary:`~bin.mongod`, see :option:`--tlsCertificateKeyFilePassword
     <mongod --tlsCertificateKeyFilePassword>`.

   - For :binary:`~bin.mongos`, see :option:`--tlsCertificateKeyFilePassword
     <mongos --tlsCertificateKeyFilePassword>`.

.. _ssl-run-fips-mode:

Run in FIPS Mode
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. include:: /includes/note-fips-is-enterprise-only.rst

See :doc:`/tutorial/configure-fips` for more details.

Next Steps
~~~~~~~~~~

To configure TLS/SSL support for clients, see
:doc:`/tutorial/configure-ssl-clients`.

.. seealso::

   :doc:`/tutorial/configure-x509-client-authentication`


.. _configure-ssl:

Procedures (Using ``net.ssl`` Settings)
---------------------------------------

.. note::

   Starting in version 4.2, MongoDB provides ``net.tls`` settings (and
   corresponding command-line options) that corresponds to the
   ``net.ssl`` settings (and their corresponding command-line
   options). The ``net.tls`` settings provide **identical** functionality as
   the ``net.ssl`` options since MongoDB has always supported TLS
   1.0 and later.

   The procedures in this section use the ``net.ssl`` settings. For
   procedures using the ``net.tls`` aliases, see :ref:`configure-tls`.
   
Set Up ``mongod`` and ``mongos`` with TLS/SSL Certificate and Key
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The following section configures
:binary:`~bin.mongod`/:binary:`~bin.mongos` to use TLS/SSL connections.
With these TLS/SSL settings,
:binary:`~bin.mongod`/:binary:`~bin.mongos` presents its certificate
key file to the client. However, the
:binary:`~bin.mongod`/:binary:`~bin.mongos` does not require a
certificate key file from the client to verify the client's identity.
To require client's certificate key file, see
:ref:`client-cert-validation-ssl` instead.
   
To use TLS/SSL connections, include the following TLS/SSL settings in
your :binary:`~bin.mongod`/:binary:`~bin.mongos` instance's
:ref:`configuration file <conf-file>`:

.. tabs::

   tabs:
   
     - id: pem
       name: "PEMKeyFile (Linux/Windows/macOS)"
       content: |
         .. list-table::
            :class: border-table
            :header-rows: 1
            :widths: 30 70
   
            * - Setting
              - Notes

            * - :setting:`net.ssl.mode`

              - Set to ``requireSSL``.

                This setting restricts each server to use only TLS/SSL encrypted
                connections. You can also specify ``allowSSL`` or ``preferSSL``
                to use mixed TLS/SSL modes. See
                :setting:`net.ssl.mode` for details.

            * - :setting:`net.ssl.PEMKeyFile` 

              - Set to the :file:`.pem` file that contains the TLS/SSL
                certificate and key.
  
                The :binary:`~bin.mongod`/:binary:`~bin.mongos` instance
                presents this file to its clients to establish the instance's
                identity.

                If the key is encrypted, specify the passphrase
                (:setting:`net.ssl.PEMKeyPassword`).

         For example, consider the following :ref:`configuration file
         <conf-file>` for a :binary:`~bin.mongod` instance:

         .. code-block:: yaml
            :emphasize-lines: 1-4

            net:
               ssl:
                  mode: requireSSL
                  PEMKeyFile: /etc/ssl/mongodb.pem
            systemLog:
               destination: file
               path: "/var/log/mongodb/mongod.log"
               logAppend: true
            storage:
               dbPath: "/var/lib/mongodb"
            processManagement:
               fork: true
            net:
               bindIp: localhost,mongodb0.example.net
               port: 27017


     - id: certstore
       name: "System SSL Certificate Store(Windows/macOS)"
       content: |
         Starting in MongoDB 4.0, you can use system SSL certificate stores for
         Windows and macOS. To use the system SSL certificate store, specify
         :setting:`net.ssl.certificateSelector` instead of specifying the
         certificate key file.

         .. list-table::
            :class: border-table
            :header-rows: 1
            :widths: 30 70
   
            * - Setting
              - Notes

            * - :setting:`net.ssl.mode`

              - Set to ``requireSSL``.

                This setting restricts each server to use only TLS/SSL encrypted
                connections. You can also specify ``allowSSL`` or ``preferSSL``
                to use mixed TLS/SSL modes. See
                :setting:`net.ssl.mode` for details.

            * - :setting:`net.ssl.certificateSelector` 

              - Set to the property (either ``subject`` or
                ``thumbprint``) and value.

                This setting is used to select the certificate. See
                :setting:`net.ssl.certificateSelector` for details.

         For example, consider the following :ref:`configuration file
         <conf-file>` for a :binary:`~bin.mongod` instance:

         .. code-block:: yaml
            :emphasize-lines: 1-4

            net:
               ssl:
                  mode: requireSSL
                  certificateSelector: subject="<CertificateCommonName>"
            systemLog:
               destination: file
               path: "/var/log/mongodb/mongod.log"
               logAppend: true
            storage:
               dbPath: "/var/lib/mongodb"
            processManagement:
               fork: true
            net:
               bindIp: localhost,mongodb0.example.net
               port: 27017

A :binary:`~bin.mongod` instance that uses the above configuration
can only use TLS/SSL connections:

.. code-block:: sh

   mongod --config <path/to/configuration/file>

That is, clients must specify TLS/SSL connections. See
:ref:`ssl-client-connection-only` for more information on
connecting with TLS/SSL.

.. seealso::

   You can also configure :binary:`~bin.mongod` and :binary:`~bin.mongos`
   using command-line options instead of the configuration file:

   - For :binary:`~bin.mongod`, see: :option:`--sslMode <mongod
     --sslMode>`; :option:`--sslPEMKeyFile <mongod --sslPEMKeyFile>`;
     and :option:`--sslCertificateSelector <mongod --sslCertificateSelector>`.

   - For :binary:`~bin.mongos`, see: :option:`--sslMode <mongos --sslMode>`;
     :option:`--sslPEMKeyFile <mongos --sslPEMKeyFile>`; and
     :option:`--sslCertificateSelector <mongos
     --sslCertificateSelector>`.

.. _client-cert-validation-ssl:

Set Up ``mongod`` and ``mongos`` with Client Certificate Validation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The following section configures
:binary:`~bin.mongod`/:binary:`~bin.mongos` to use TLS/SSL connections
and perform client certificate validation. With these TLS/SSL settings:

- :binary:`~bin.mongod`/:binary:`~bin.mongos` presents its certificate
  key file to the client for verification.

- :binary:`~bin.mongod`/:binary:`~bin.mongos` requires a certificate
  key file from the client to verify the client's identity.

To use TLS/SSL connections, include the following TLS/SSL settings in
your :binary:`~bin.mongod`/:binary:`~bin.mongos` instance's
:ref:`configuration file <conf-file>`:

.. note::

   Starting in MongoDB 4.0, you can use system SSL certificate stores for
   Windows and macOS. To use the system SSL certificate store, specify
   :setting:`net.ssl.certificateSelector` instead of specifying the
   certificate key file.

.. list-table::
   :class: border-table
   :header-rows: 1
   :widths: 30 70

   * - Setting
     - Notes

   * - :setting:`net.ssl.mode`

     - Set to ``requireSSL``.

       This setting restricts each server to use only TLS/SSL encrypted
       connections. You can also specify ``allowSSL`` or ``preferSSL``
       to use mixed TLS/SSL modes. See
       :setting:`net.ssl.mode` for details.

   * - :setting:`net.ssl.PEMKeyFile` 

     - Set to the :file:`.pem` file that contains the TLS/SSL
       certificate and key.

       The :binary:`~bin.mongod`/:binary:`~bin.mongos` instance
       presents this file to its clients to establish the instance's
       identity.
       
       If the key is encrypted, specify the passphrase
       (:setting:`net.ssl.PEMKeyPassword`).

   * - :setting:`net.ssl.CAFile`
   
     - Set to the path of the file that contains the
       certificate chain for verifying client certificates.

       The :binary:`~bin.mongod`/:binary:`~bin.mongos`
       instance use this file to verify certificates presented
       by its clients. The certificate chain includes the
       certificate of the root Certificate Authority.

For example, consider the following :ref:`configuration file
<conf-file>` for a :binary:`~bin.mongod` instance:

.. code-block:: yaml
   :emphasize-lines: 1-5

   net:
      ssl:
         mode: requireSSL
         PEMKeyFile: /etc/ssl/mongodb.pem
         CAFile: /etc/ssl/caToValidateClientCertificates.pem
   systemLog:
      destination: file
      path: "/var/log/mongodb/mongod.log"
      logAppend: true
   storage:
      dbPath: "/var/lib/mongodb"
   processManagement:
      fork: true
   net:
      bindIp: localhost,mongodb0.example.net
      port: 27017

A :binary:`~bin.mongod` instance that uses the above configuration
can only use TLS/SSL connections and requires valid certificate from
its clients:

.. code-block:: sh

   mongod --config <path/to/configuration/file>

That is, clients must specify TLS/SSL connections and presents its
certificate key file to the instance. See
:ref:`mongo-connect-require-client-certificates-ssl` for more
information on connecting with TLS/SSL.

.. seealso::
   You can also configure :binary:`~bin.mongod` and
   :binary:`~bin.mongos` using command-line options instead of the
   configuration file:

   - For :binary:`~bin.mongod`, see :option:`--sslMode <mongod --sslMode>`,
     :option:`--sslPEMKeyFile <mongod --sslPEMKeyFile>`, and 
     :option:`--sslCAFile <mongod --sslCAFile>`.

   - For :binary:`~bin.mongos`, see :option:`--sslMode <mongos --sslMode>`,
     :option:`--sslPEMKeyFile <mongos --sslPEMKeyFile>`, and 
     :option:`--sslCAFile <mongos --sslCAFile>`.

Block Revoked Certificates for Clients
``````````````````````````````````````

To prevent clients with revoked certificates from connecting to the
:binary:`~bin.mongod` or :binary:`~bin.mongos` instance, you can use:

- Online Certificate Status Protocol (OCSP)
      Starting in version 4.4, to check for certificate revocation,
      MongoDB :parameter:`enables <ocspEnabled>` the use of OCSP
      (Online Certificate Status Protocol) by default as an alternative
      to specifying a CRL file or using the :setting:`system SSL
      certificate store <net.ssl.certificateSelector>`.


      In versions 4.0 and 4.2, the use of OCSP is available only
      through the use of :setting:`system certificate store
      <net.ssl.certificateSelector>` on Windows or macOS.

- Certificate Revocation List (CRL)
      To specify a CRL file, include
      :setting:`net.ssl.CRLFile` set to a file that contains revoked
      certificates.

      For example:

      .. code-block:: yaml
         :emphasize-lines: 6

         net:
           ssl:
             mode: requireSSL
             PEMKeyFile: /etc/ssl/mongodb.pem
             CAFile: /etc/ssl/caToValidateClientCertificates.pem
             CRLFile: /etc/ssl/revokedCertificates.pem

      Clients who presents certificates that are listed in the
      :file:`/etc/ssl/revokedCertificates.pem` will not be able to connect.

      .. seealso::
         You can also configure the revoked certificate list using the command-line option.

         - For :binary:`~bin.mongod`, see :option:`--sslCRLFile <mongod --sslCRLFile>`.
         - For :binary:`~bin.mongos`, see :option:`--sslCRLFile <mongos --sslCRLFile>`.

Validate Only if a Client Presents a Certificate
````````````````````````````````````````````````

In most cases, it is important to ensure that clients present valid
certificates. However, if you have clients that cannot present a client
certificate or are transitioning to using a certificate, you may only
want to validate certificates from clients that present a certificate.

To bypass client certificate validation for clients that do not present
a certificate, include
:setting:`net.ssl.allowConnectionsWithoutCertificates` set to ``true``.

For example:

.. code-block:: yaml
   :emphasize-lines: 6

   net:
     ssl:
       mode: requireSSL
       PEMKeyFile: /etc/ssl/mongodb.pem
       CAFile: /etc/ssl/caToValidateClientCertificates.pem
       allowConnectionsWithoutCertificates: true
   
A :binary:`~bin.mongod`/:binary:`~bin.mongos` running with these
settings allows connection from:

- Clients that do not present a certificate.

- Clients that present a valid certificate.

.. note::

   If the client presents a certificate, the certificate must be a
   valid certificate.

   All connections, including those that have not presented
   certificates, are encrypted using TLS/SSL.

See :ref:`ssl-clients` for more information on TLS/SSL connections for
clients.

.. seealso::

   You can also configure using the command-line options:

   - For :binary:`~bin.mongod`, see :option:`--sslAllowConnectionsWithoutCertificates
     <mongod --sslAllowConnectionsWithoutCertificates>`.

   - For :binary:`~bin.mongos`, see :option:`--sslAllowConnectionsWithoutCertificates
     <mongos --sslAllowConnectionsWithoutCertificates>`.

Disallow Protocols
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To prevent MongoDB servers from accepting incoming connections that use
specific protocols, include :setting:`net.ssl.disabledProtocols` set to
the disallowed protocols.

For example, the following configuration prevents
:binary:`~bin.mongod`/:binary:`~bin.mongos` from accepting incoming
connections that use either ``TLS1_0`` or ``TLS1_1``

.. code-block:: yaml
   :emphasize-lines: 6

   net:
     ssl:
       mode: requireSSL
       PEMKeyFile: /etc/ssl/mongodb.pem
       CAFile: /etc/ssl/caToValidateClientCertificates.pem
       disabledProtocols: TLS1_0,TLS1_1

.. seealso::

   You can also configure using the command-line options:

   - For :binary:`~bin.mongod`, see :option:`--sslDisabledProtocols
     <mongod --sslDisabledProtocols>`.

   - For :binary:`~bin.mongos`, see :option:`--sslDisabledProtocols
     <mongos --sslDisabledProtocols>`.

TLS/SSL Certificate Passphrase
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

If the certificate key files for
:binary:`~bin.mongod`/:binary:`~bin.mongos` are encrypted, include
:setting:`net.ssl.PEMKeyPassword` set to the passphrase.

.. seealso::

   You can also configure using the command-line options:

   - For :binary:`~bin.mongod`, see :option:`--sslPEMKeyPassword
     <mongod --sslPEMKeyPassword>`.

   - For :binary:`~bin.mongos`, see :option:`--sslPEMKeyPassword
     <mongos --sslPEMKeyPassword>`.

Run in FIPS Mode
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. include:: /includes/note-fips-is-enterprise-only.rst

See :doc:`/tutorial/configure-fips` for more details.

Next Steps
~~~~~~~~~~

To configure TLS/SSL support for clients, see
:doc:`/tutorial/configure-ssl-clients`.

.. seealso::

   :doc:`/tutorial/configure-x509-client-authentication`
