======================================================
Deploy MongoDB on Windows with Kerberos Authentication
======================================================

.. default-domain:: mongodb

.. versionadded:: 2.5.3

Overview
--------

MongoDB Enterprise supports authentication using a :doc:`Kerberos
service </core/kerberos>`. Kerberos is an industry standard
authentication protocol for large client/server system. Kerberos allows
MongoDB and applications to take advantage of existing authentication
infrastructure and processes.

Prerequisites
-------------

Setting up and configuring a Kerberos deployment is beyond the scope of
this document. This tutorial assumes have configured a :ref:`Kerberos
service principal <kerberos-service-principal>` for each
:program:`mongod.exe` and :program:`mongos.exe` instance as well as
:ref:`initialize a credential cache <linux-init-mongodb-clients>` for
the :program:`mongo` shell.

Procedures
----------

.. include:: /includes/steps/control-access-to-mongodb-windows-with-kerberos-authentication.rst

Additional Considerations
-------------------------

Configure ``mongos.exe`` for Kerberos
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To start :program:`mongos.exe` with Kerberos support, set the
:program:`mongos.exe` parameter :parameter:`authenticationMechanisms`
to ``GSSAPI``. You must start :program:`mongos.exe` as the
:ref:`service principal account <assign-service-principal-name>`.:

.. code-block:: sh

   mongos.exe --setParameter authenticationMechanisms=GSSAPI <additional mongos options>

For example, the following starts a :program:`mongos` instance with
Kerberos support:

.. code-block:: sh

   mongos.exe --setParameter authenticationMechanisms=GSSAPI --configdb shard0.example.net, shard1.example.net,shard2.example.net --keyFile C:\<path>\mongos.keyfile

Modify or include any additional :program:`mongos.exe` options as required
for your configuration. For example, instead of using
:option:`--keyFile` for for internal authentication of sharded cluster
members, you can use :ref:`x.509 member authentication
<x509-internal-authentication>` instead.

.. _assign-service-principal-name:

Assign Service Principal Name to MongoDB Windows Service
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Use ``setspn.exe`` to assign the service principal name (SPN) to the
account running the ``mongod.exe`` and the ``mongos.exe`` service:

.. code-block:: sh

   setspn.exe -A <service>/<fully qualified domain name> <service account name>

For example, if :program:`mongod.exe` runs as a service named
``mongodb`` on ``testserver.mongodb.com`` with the service account name
``mongodtest``, assign the SPN as follows:

.. code-block:: sh

   setspn.exe -A mongodb/testserver.mongodb.com mongodtest

.. _enable-mixed-kerberos-and-cr-windows:

Incorporate Additional Authentication Mechanisms
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Kerberos authentication (``GSSAPI``) can work alongside MongoDB's
challenge/response authentication mechanism (``MONGODB-CR``), MongoDB's
authentication mechanism for LDAP (``PLAIN``), and MongoDB's
authentication mechanism for x.509 (``MONGODB-X509``). Specify the
mechanisms, as follows:

.. code-block:: sh

   --setParameter authenticationMechanisms=GSSAPI,MONGODB-CR

Only add the other mechanisms if in use. This parameter setting does
not affect MongoDB's internal authentication of cluster members.
