.. _create-k8s-project:

====================================
Create One Project using a ConfigMap
====================================

.. default-domain:: mongodb

.. contents:: On this page
   :local:
   :backlinks: none
   :depth: 1
   :class: singlecol

The |k8s-op-full| uses a |k8s| |k8s-configmap| to link to a single, unique
|onprem| :opsmgr:`Project </tutorial/manage-projects>`. If the 
referenced project doesn't exist, the |k8s-op-short| creates it 
according to the ``projectName`` that you provide in the ConfigMap.

.. note:: 

   As each |k8s-op-full| deployment requires a one to one pairing with
   a unique |onprem| :opsmgr:`Project </tutorial/manage-projects>`, 
   you can either create a distinct ConfigMap for each |k8s-op-full| instance
   you deploy, or you can reuse the same ConfigMap for any number of deployments
   by omitting the ``data.projectName`` from your ConfigMap, so that
   project names will be randomly generated as required.

To create a |k8s-op-short| ConfigMap, you can edit a few lines of the
:ref:`example ConfigMap <example-k8s-configmap>` |yaml| file and apply
the ConfigMap. To view a full example, see the :github:`project.yaml
</mongodb/mongodb-enterprise-kubernetes/blob/master/samples/mongodb/project.yaml>` file.

Alternatively, you can use the |cloud| :cloudmgr:`UI 
</tutorial/nav/k8s-config-for-mdb-resource/>` or the |onprem| 
:opsmgr:`UI </tutorial/nav/k8s-config-for-mdb-resource/>` to create or 
choose a project, and automatically generate the ConfigMap YAML file, 
which you can then apply to your Kubernetes environment. 

Considerations
--------------

You can deploy only one MongoDB resource per project. This limit 
applies because |onprem| supports only one authentication method for 
database user access per project. To learn more, see 
:ref:`k8s-deploy-mdb-resources`.

.. include:: /includes/admonitions/note-k8s-supported-in-om4.rst

Prerequisites
-------------

- Kubernetes version 1.11 or later or Openshift version
  3.11 or later.
- |k8s-op-full| version 0.11 or later
  :doc:`installed </tutorial/install-k8s-operator>`.

.. _example-k8s-configmap:

Create One Project Using a ConfigMap
------------------------------------

.. include:: /includes/steps/create-k8s-configmap.rst

.. _connect-https-om-custom-ca:

Connect to HTTPS-enabled Ops Manager Using a Custom CA
------------------------------------------------------

You might have chosen to use your own |tls| certificate to enable
|https| for your |onprem| instance. If you used a custom certificate,
you need to add the CA that signed that custom certificate to the
|k8s-op-short|. To add your custom CA, complete the following:

.. include:: /includes/steps/set-configmap-for-tls.rst

Next Steps
----------

Now that you created your ConfigMap, :ref:`create-k8s-secret` before
you start :doc:`deploying MongoDB resources </deploy>`.
