============================================
Enable Access Control on MongoDB Deployments
============================================

.. default-domain:: mongodb

Overview
--------

Access control provides MongoDB :manual:`authentication
</core/authentication>` and :manual:`authorization </core/authorization>`
on your deployments. Authentication requires clients to provide user
credentials before they can connect to MongoDB. Authorization limits each
client to the resources and actions allowed by the client's roles. If you
leave access control disabled, any client can access any database in your
deployments and perform any action.

When you enable MongoDB access control, you enable it for all the
deployments in your MMS group. The group shares one set of users
for all deployments, but each user has permissions only for specific
resources.

Access control applies to the MMS agents as well as to clients. When you
enable access control, MMS creates the appropriate users for the agents.

Considerations
--------------

Once you enable access control, you must :doc:`create MongoDB users
</tutorial/manage-mongodb-users>` so that clients can access your
databases. Always use the MMS interface to manage users and roles. Do not
do so through direct connection to a MongoDB instance.

When you enable access control, MMS creates a user with global privileges
used only by the Automation Agent. The first user you create can be any
type of user, as the Automation Agent guarantees you will always have
access to user management.

For more information on MongoDB access control, see the
:manual:`Authentication </core/authentication>` and :manual:`Authorization
</core/authorization>` pages in the MongoDB manual.

Procedure
---------

.. _enable-authentication:

Enable Authentication
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. include:: /includes/steps/enable-access-control.rst

Next Steps
~~~~~~~~~~

To create your first users and assign privileges, see
:doc:`/tutorial/manage-mongodb-users`.
