===================================================
Enable Kerberos Authentication for your |mms| Group
===================================================

.. default-domain:: mongodb

.. contents:: On this page
   :local:
   :backlinks: none
   :depth: 1
   :class: singlecol

Overview
--------

.. include:: /includes/enable-auth-intro.rst

.. next two paragraphs stolenish from the MongoDB Manual

`MongoDB Enterprise
<http://www.mongodb.com/products/mongodb-enterprise?jmp=docs>`_
supports authentication using a Kerberos service. Kerberos is an
industry standard authentication protocol for large client/server
systems.

To use MongoDB with Kerberos, you must have a properly configured
Kerberos deployment, configure *Kerberos service principals* for
MongoDB, and add the *Kerberos user principal*. The :manual:`Kerberos
Authentication </core/kerberos>` section of the MongoDB Manual provides
more detail about using MongoDB with Kerberos.

Considerations
--------------

.. include:: /includes/extracts/enterprise-availability-kerberos.rst

This tutorial describes how to enable Kerberos for your |mms| group,
and how to configure your |mms| Agents to connect to your Kerberized 
deployment. 

Setting up and configuring a Kerberos deployment is beyond the scope of
this document. This tutorial assumes you have configured a Kerberos
service principal for each Agent and you have a valid keytab file for each Agent.

.. include:: /includes/note-reset-auth.rst

Procedures
----------

This procedure describes how to configure and enable Kerberos
authentication when using Automation. If your Monitoring or Backup
agents are **not** managed by |mms|, you must manually configure them
to use Kerberos. See:
:doc:`/tutorial/configure-monitoring-agent-for-kerberos` and
:doc:`/tutorial/configure-backup-agent-for-kerberos` for instructions.

Configure an Existing Deployment for Kerberos-based Authentication
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

If you have one or more existing deployments managed by |mms|,
the MongoDB deployment must be configured for Kerberos authentication 
before you can enable Kerberos authentication for your group.

.. include:: /includes/steps/configure-existing-deployment-for-kerberos.rst

When you have configured the Kerberos options for each deployment,
you can proceed to enable Kerberos for your |mms| group.

Enable Kerberos for your |mms| Group
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. include:: /includes/steps/enable-authentication-kerberos.rst
