.. _read-operations-projection:
.. _projection:
.. _projections:

===================================
Project Fields to Return from Query
===================================

.. default-domain:: mongodb

By default, queries in MongoDB return all fields in matching documents.
To limit the amount of data that MongoDB sends to applications, you can
include a :term:`projection` document to specify or restrict fields to
return.

.. |query_operations| replace:: query operations with projection

.. include:: /includes/driver-example-query-intro.rst

.. include:: /includes/driver-example-query-42.rst

Return All Fields in Matching Documents
---------------------------------------

.. tabs::

   tabs:
     - id: shell
       content: |
         If you do not specify a :term:`projection` document, the
         :method:`db.collection.find()` method returns all fields in the
         matching documents.

     - id: python
       content: |
         If you do not specify a :term:`projection` document, the
         :py:meth:`~pymongo.collection.Collection.find` method returns
         all fields in the matching documents.

The following example returns all fields from all documents in the
``inventory`` collection where the ``status`` equals ``"A"``:

.. include:: /includes/driver-example-query-43.rst

The operation corresponds to the following SQL statement:

.. code-block:: sql

   SELECT * from inventory WHERE status = "A"

Return the Specified Fields and the ``_id`` Field Only
------------------------------------------------------

A projection can explicitly include several fields by specifying
``<field>: 1`` in the projection document. The following operation
returns all documents that match the query. In the result set, only the
``item``, ``status`` and, by default, the ``_id`` fields return in the
matching documents.

.. include:: /includes/driver-example-query-44.rst

The operation corresponds to the following SQL statement:

.. code-block:: sql

   SELECT _id, item, status from inventory WHERE status = "A"

Suppress ``_id`` Field
----------------------

You can remove the ``_id`` field from the results by specifying its
exclusion ``<field>: 0`` in the projection, as in the following example:

.. include:: /includes/driver-example-query-45.rst

The operation corresponds to the following SQL statement:

.. code-block:: sql

   SELECT item, status from inventory WHERE status = "A"

Return All But the Excluded Fields
----------------------------------

Instead of listing the fields to return in the matching document, you
can use a projection to exclude specific fields. The following example
which returns all fields except for the ``status`` and the ``instock``
fields in the matching documents:

.. include:: /includes/driver-example-query-46.rst

With the exception of the ``_id`` field, you cannot combine inclusion
and exclusion statements in projection documents.

Return Specific Fields in Embedded Documents
--------------------------------------------

You can return specific fields in an embedded document. Use the
:ref:`dot notation <document-dot-notation>` to refer to the embedded
field and set to ``1`` in the projection document.

The following example returns: the ``_id`` field (returned by default),
``item`` field, ``status`` field, and the ``uom`` field in the ``size``
document; the ``uom`` field remains embedded in the ``size`` document.

.. include:: /includes/driver-example-query-47.rst

Suppress Specific Fields in Embedded Documents
----------------------------------------------

You can suppress specific fields in an embedded document. Use the
:ref:`dot notation <document-dot-notation>` to refer to the embedded
field in the projection document and set to ``0``.

The following example specifies a projection to exclude the ``uom``
field inside the ``size`` document. All other fields are returned in
the matching documents:

.. include:: /includes/driver-example-query-48.rst

Projection on Embedded Documents in an Array
--------------------------------------------

Use :ref:`dot notation <document-dot-notation>` to project specific
fields inside documents embedded in an array.

The following example specifies a projection to return the ``item``
field, the ``status`` field, and the ``qty`` field in the documents
embedded in the ``instock`` array. The ``_id`` field is returned by
default.

.. include:: /includes/driver-example-query-49.rst


Project Specific Array Elements in the Returned Array
-----------------------------------------------------

For fields that contain arrays, MongoDB provides the following
projection operators: :projection:`$elemMatch`, :projection:`$slice`,
and :projection:`$`.

The following example uses the :projection:`$slice` projection operator
to return just the last element in the ``instock`` array.

.. include:: /includes/driver-example-query-50.rst

:projection:`$elemMatch`, :projection:`$slice`, and :projection:`$` are
the *only* way to project specific elements to include in the returned
array. For instance, you *cannot* project specific array elements using
the array index; e.g. ``{ "instock.0": 1 }`` projection will *not*
project the array with the first element.

.. seealso:: :doc:`/tutorial/query-documents`

.. tabs::

   tabs:
     - id: shell
       content: |
         .. include:: /includes/footnote-set-shell-batch-size.rst
