.. _read-operations-query-document:
.. _read-operations-query-argument:

===============
Query Documents
===============

.. default-domain:: mongodb

In MongoDB, the :method:`db.collection.find()` method retrieves
documents from a collection. [#findOne]_ The
:method:`db.collection.find()` method returns a :doc:`cursor
</core/cursors>` to the retrieved documents.

This tutorial provides examples of read operations using the
:method:`db.collection.find()` method in the :program:`mongo` shell. In
these examples, the retrieved documents contain all their fields. To
restrict the fields to return in the retrieved documents, see
:doc:`/tutorial/project-fields-from-query-results`.

.. [#findOne]
   The :method:`db.collection.findOne()` method also performs a read
   operation to return a single document. Internally, the
   :method:`db.collection.findOne()` method is the
   :method:`db.collection.find()` method with a limit of 1.

Select All Documents in a Collection
------------------------------------

An empty query document (``{}``) selects all documents in the
collection:

.. code-block:: javascript

   db.inventory.find( {} )

Not specifying a query document to the :method:`~db.collection.find()`
is equivalent to specifying an empty query document. Therefore the
following operation is equivalent to the previous operation:

.. code-block:: javascript

   db.inventory.find()

Specify Equality Condition
--------------------------

To specify equality condition, use the query document ``{ <field>:
<value> }`` to select all documents that contain the ``<field>`` with
the specified ``<value>``.

The following example retrieves from the ``inventory`` collection all
documents where the ``type`` field has the value ``snacks``:

.. code-block:: javascript

   db.inventory.find( { type: "snacks" } )

Specify Conditions Using Query Operators
----------------------------------------

A query document can use the :ref:`query operators <query-selectors>`
to specify conditions in a MongoDB query.

The following example selects all documents in the ``inventory``
collection where the value of the ``type`` field is either ``'food'``
or ``'snacks'``:

.. code-block:: javascript

   db.inventory.find( { type: { $in: [ 'food', 'snacks' ] } } )

Although you can express this query using the :query:`$or` operator,
use the :query:`$in` operator rather than the :query:`$or`
operator when performing equality checks on the same field.

Refer to the :doc:`/reference/operator` document for the complete list
of query operators.

Specify ``AND`` Conditions
--------------------------

A compound query can specify conditions for more than one field in the
collection's documents. Implicitly, a logical ``AND`` conjunction
connects the clauses of a compound query so that the query selects the
documents in the collection that match all the conditions.

In the following example, the query document specifies an equality
match on the field ``type`` **and** a less than (:query:`$lt`)
comparison match on the field ``price``:

.. code-block:: javascript

   db.inventory.find( { type: 'food', price: { $lt: 9.95 } } )

This query selects all documents where the ``type`` field has the value
``'food'`` **and** the value of the ``price`` field is less than
``9.95``. See :ref:`comparison operators <query-selectors-comparison>`
for other comparison operators.

Specify ``OR`` Conditions
-------------------------

Using the :query:`$or` operator, you can specify a compound query
that joins each clause with a logical ``OR`` conjunction so that the
query selects the documents in the collection that match at least one
condition.

In the following example, the query document selects all documents in
the collection where the field ``qty`` has a value greater than
(:query:`$gt`) ``100`` **or** the value of the ``price`` field is
less than (:query:`$lt`) ``9.95``:

.. code-block:: javascript

   db.inventory.find(
      {
        $or: [ { qty: { $gt: 100 } }, { price: { $lt: 9.95 } } ]
      }
   )

Specify ``AND`` as well as ``OR`` Conditions
--------------------------------------------

With additional clauses, you can specify precise conditions for
matching documents.

In the following example, the compound query document selects all
documents in the collection where the value of the ``type`` field is
``'food'`` **and** *either* the ``qty`` has a value greater than
(:query:`$gt`) ``100`` *or* the value of the ``price`` field is less
than (:query:`$lt`) ``9.95``:

.. code-block:: javascript

   db.inventory.find(
      {
        type: 'food',
        $or: [ { qty: { $gt: 100 } }, { price: { $lt: 9.95 } } ]
      }
   )

.. TODO should do a more thorough copy-edits to the page, especially
   starting from here.

.. _read-operations-subdocuments:

Embedded Documents
------------------

When the field holds an embedded document, a query can either specify
an exact match on the embedded document or specify a match by
individual fields in the embedded document using the :term:`dot
notation`.

Exact Match on the Embedded Document
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To specify an equality match on the whole embedded document, use the
query document ``{ <field>: <value> }`` where ``<value>`` is the
document to match. Equality matches on an embedded document require an
*exact* match of the specified ``<value>``, including the field order.

In the following example, the query matches all documents where the
value of the field ``producer`` is an embedded document that contains
*only* the field ``company`` with the value ``'ABC123'`` and the field
``address`` with the value ``'123 Street'``, in the exact order:

.. code-block:: javascript

   db.inventory.find(
       {
         producer:
           {
             company: 'ABC123',
             address: '123 Street'
           }
       }
   )

Equality Match on Fields within an Embedded Document
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Use the :term:`dot notation` to match by specific fields in an embedded
document. Equality matches for specific fields in an embedded document
will select documents in the collection where the embedded document
contains the specified fields with the specified values. The embedded
document can contain additional fields.

In the following example, the query uses the :term:`dot notation` to
match all documents where the value of the field ``producer`` is an
embedded document that contains a field ``company`` with the value
``'ABC123'`` and may contain other fields:

.. code-block:: javascript

   db.inventory.find( { 'producer.company': 'ABC123' } )

.. _read-operations-arrays:

Arrays
------

When the field holds an array, you can query for an exact array match
or for specific values in the array. If the array holds embedded
documents, you can query for specific fields in the embedded documents
using :term:`dot notation`.

If you specify multiple conditions using the :query:`$elemMatch`
operator, the array must contain at least one element that satisfies
all the conditions. See :ref:`single-element-satisfies-criteria`.

If you specify multiple conditions without using the
:query:`$elemMatch` operator, then some combination of the array
elements, not necessarily a single element, must satisfy all the
conditions; i.e. different elements in the array can satisfy different
parts of the conditions. See
:ref:`combination-of-elements-satisfies-criteria`.

Consider an ``inventory`` collection that contains the following
documents:

.. code-block:: javascript

   { _id: 5, type: "food", item: "aaa", ratings: [ 5, 8, 9 ] }
   { _id: 6, type: "food", item: "bbb", ratings: [ 5, 9 ] }
   { _id: 7, type: "food", item: "ccc", ratings: [ 9, 5, 8 ] }

.. _array-match-exact:

Exact Match on an Array
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To specify equality match on an array, use the query document ``{
<field>: <value> }`` where ``<value>`` is the array to match. Equality
matches on the array require that the array field match *exactly* the
specified ``<value>``, including the element order.

The following example queries for all documents where the field
``ratings`` is an array that holds exactly three elements, ``5``,
``8``, and ``9``, in this order:

.. code-block:: javascript

   db.inventory.find( { ratings: [ 5, 8, 9 ] } )

The operation returns the following document:

.. code-block:: javascript

   { "_id" : 5, "type" : "food", "item" : "aaa", "ratings" : [ 5, 8, 9 ] }

.. _array-match-single-element:

Match an Array Element
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Equality matches can specify a single element in the array to match.
These specifications match if the array contains at least *one* element
with the specified value.

The following example queries for all documents where ``ratings`` is an
array that contains ``5`` as one of its elements:

.. code-block:: javascript

   db.inventory.find( { ratings: 5 } )

The operation returns the following documents:

.. code-block:: javascript

   { "_id" : 5, "type" : "food", "item" : "aaa", "ratings" : [ 5, 8, 9 ] }
   { "_id" : 6, "type" : "food", "item" : "bbb", "ratings" : [ 5, 9 ] }
   { "_id" : 7, "type" : "food", "item" : "ccc", "ratings" : [ 9, 5, 8 ] }

Match a Specific Element of an Array
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Equality matches can specify equality matches for an element at a
particular index or position of the array using the :term:`dot
notation`.

In the following example, the query uses the :term:`dot notation` to
match all documents where the ``ratings`` array contains ``5`` as the
first element:

.. code-block:: javascript

   db.inventory.find( { 'ratings.0': 5 } )

The operation returns the following documents:

.. code-block:: javascript

   { "_id" : 5, "type" : "food", "item" : "aaa", "ratings" : [ 5, 8, 9 ] }
   { "_id" : 6, "type" : "food", "item" : "bbb", "ratings" : [ 5, 9 ] }

.. _specify-multiple-criteria-for-array-elements:

Specify Multiple Criteria for Array Elements
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. _single-element-satisfies-criteria:

Single Element Satisfies the Criteria
`````````````````````````````````````

Use :query:`$elemMatch` operator to specify multiple criteria on the
elements of an array such that at least one array element satisfies all
the specified criteria.

The following example queries for documents where the ``ratings`` array
contains at least one element that is greater than (:query:`$gt`) ``5``
and less than (:query:`$lt`) ``9``:

.. code-block:: javascript

   db.inventory.find( { ratings: { $elemMatch: { $gt: 5, $lt: 9 } } } )

The operation returns the following documents, whose ``ratings`` array
contains the element ``8`` which meets the criteria:

.. code-block:: javascript

   { "_id" : 5, "type" : "food", "item" : "aaa", "ratings" : [ 5, 8, 9 ] }
   { "_id" : 7, "type" : "food", "item" : "ccc", "ratings" : [ 9, 5, 8 ] }

.. _combination-of-elements-satisfies-criteria:

Combination of Elements Satisfies the Criteria
``````````````````````````````````````````````

The following example queries for documents where the ``ratings`` array
contains elements that in some combination satisfy the query
conditions; e.g., one element can satisfy the greater than ``5``
condition and another element can satisfy the less than ``9``
condition, or a single element can satisfy both:

.. code-block:: javascript

   db.inventory.find( { ratings: { $gt: 5, $lt: 9 } } )

The operation returns the following documents:

.. code-block:: javascript

   { "_id" : 5, "type" : "food", "item" : "aaa", "ratings" : [ 5, 8, 9 ] }
   { "_id" : 6, "type" : "food", "item" : "bbb", "ratings" : [ 5, 9 ] }
   { "_id" : 7, "type" : "food", "item" : "ccc", "ratings" : [ 9, 5, 8 ] }

The document with the ``"ratings" : [ 5, 9 ]`` matches the query since
the element ``9`` is greater than ``5`` (the first condition) and the
element ``5`` is less than ``9`` (the second condition).

.. _array-match-embedded-documents:

Array of Embedded Documents
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Consider that the ``inventory`` collection includes the following
documents:

.. code-block:: javascript

   {
     _id: 100,
     type: "food",
     item: "xyz",
     qty: 25,
     price: 2.5,
     ratings: [ 5, 8, 9 ],
     memos: [ { memo: "on time", by: "shipping" }, { memo: "approved", by: "billing" } ]
   }

   {
     _id: 101,
     type: "fruit",
     item: "jkl",
     qty: 10,
     price: 4.25,
     ratings: [ 5, 9 ],
     memos: [ { memo: "on time", by: "payment" }, { memo: "delayed", by: "shipping" } ]
   }

Match a Field in the Embedded Document Using the Array Index
````````````````````````````````````````````````````````````

If you know the array index of the embedded document, you can specify
the document using the subdocument's position using the :term:`dot
notation`.

The following example selects all documents where the ``memos``
contains an array whose first element (i.e. index is ``0``) is a
document that contains the field ``by`` whose value is ``'shipping'``:

.. code-block:: javascript

   db.inventory.find( { 'memos.0.by': 'shipping' } )

The operation returns the following document:

.. code-block:: javascript

   {
      _id: 100,
      type: "food",
      item: "xyz",
      qty: 25,
      price: 2.5,
      ratings: [ 5, 8, 9 ],
      memos: [ { memo: "on time", by: "shipping" }, { memo: "approved", by: "billing" } ]
   }

Match a Field Without Specifying Array Index
````````````````````````````````````````````

If you do not know the index position of the document in the array,
concatenate the name of the field that contains the array, with a dot
(``.``) and the name of the field in the subdocument.

The following example selects all documents where the ``memos`` field
contains an array that contains at least one embedded document that
contains the field ``by`` with the value ``'shipping'``:

.. code-block:: javascript

   db.inventory.find( { 'memos.by': 'shipping' } )

The operation returns the following documents:

.. code-block:: javascript

   {
     _id: 100,
     type: "food",
     item: "xyz",
     qty: 25,
     price: 2.5,
     ratings: [ 5, 8, 9 ],
     memos: [ { memo: "on time", by: "shipping" }, { memo: "approved", by: "billing" } ]
   }
   {
     _id: 101,
     type: "fruit",
     item: "jkl",
     qty: 10,
     price: 4.25,
     ratings: [ 5, 9 ],
     memos: [ { memo: "on time", by: "payment" }, { memo: "delayed", by: "shipping" } ]
   }

.. _array-match-multiple-fields:

.. This section needs extensive copy-editing.

Specify Multiple Criteria for Array of Documents
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Single Element Satisfies the Criteria
`````````````````````````````````````

Use :query:`$elemMatch` operator to specify multiple criteria on an
array of embedded documents such that at least one embedded document
satisfies all the specified criteria.

The following example queries for documents where the ``memos`` array
has at least one embedded document that contains both the field
``memo`` equal to ``'on time'`` and the field ``by`` equal to
``'shipping'``:

.. code-block:: javascript

   db.inventory.find(
      {
        memos:
          {
             $elemMatch:
               {
                  memo: 'on time',
                  by: 'shipping'
               }
          }
       }
   )

The operation returns the following document:

.. code-block:: javascript

   {
      _id: 100,
      type: "food",
      item: "xyz",
      qty: 25,
      price: 2.5, 
      ratings: [ 5, 8, 9 ],
      memos: [ { memo: "on time", by: "shipping" }, { memo: "approved", by: "billing" } ]
   }

Combination of Elements Satisfies the Criteria
``````````````````````````````````````````````

The following example queries for documents where the ``memos`` array
contains elements that in some combination satisfy the query
conditions; e.g. one element satisfies the field ``memo`` equal to
``'on time'`` condition and another element satisfies the field ``by``
equal to ``'shipping'`` condition, or a single element can satisfy both
criteria:

.. code-block:: javascript

   db.inventory.find(
     {
       'memos.memo': 'on time',
       'memos.by': 'shipping'
     }
   )

The query returns the following documents:

.. code-block:: javascript

   {
     _id: 100,
     type: "food",
     item: "xyz",
     qty: 25,
     price: 2.5,
     ratings: [ 5, 8, 9 ],
     memos: [ { memo: "on time", by: "shipping" }, { memo: "approved", by: "billing" } ]
   }
   {
     _id: 101,
     type: "fruit",
     item: "jkl",
     qty: 10,
     price: 4.25,
     ratings: [ 5, 9 ],
     memos: [ { memo: "on time", by: "payment" }, { memo: "delayed", by: "shipping" } ]

   }

