
.. _array-match-embedded-documents:

====================================
Query an Array of Embedded Documents
====================================

.. default-domain:: mongodb

.. meta::
   :description: MongoDB Manual - how to query an array of documents,  how to query an array of nested documents,  how to query an array of embedded documents.
   :keywords: array of nested documents, array of embedded documents, array of documents, nested documents, array index, select, array, array elements, array items

This page provides examples of how to query on array of nested
documents in MongoDB. The examples on this page use the ``inventory``
collection. To populate the ``inventory`` collection, run the following
in the :program:`mongo` shell:

.. class:: copyable-code

.. code-block:: javascript

   db.inventory.insertMany( [
      { item: "journal", instock: [ { warehouse: "A", qty: 5 }, { warehouse: "C", qty: 15 } ] },
      { item: "notebook", instock: [ { warehouse: "C", qty: 5 } ] },
      { item: "paper", instock: [ { warehouse: "A", qty: 60 }, { warehouse: "B", qty: 15 } ] },
      { item: "planner", instock: [ { warehouse: "A", qty: 40 }, { warehouse: "B", qty: 5 } ] },
      { item: "postcard", instock: [ { warehouse: "B", qty: 15 }, { warehouse: "C", qty: 35 } ] }
   ]);

.. only:: website

   You can run the operation in the web shell below:

   .. include:: /includes/fact-mws.rst

Query for a Document Nested in an Array
---------------------------------------

The following examples selects all documents where an element in the
``instock`` array matches the specified document:

.. class:: copyable-code

.. code-block:: javascript

   db.inventory.find( { "instock": { warehouse: "A", qty: 5 } } )

Equality matches on the whole embedded/nested document require an
*exact* match of the specified document, including the field order. For
example, the following query does not match any documents in the
``inventory`` collection:

.. class:: copyable-code

.. code-block:: javascript

   db.inventory.find( { "instock": { qty: 5, warehouse: "A" } } )

Specify a Query Condition on a Field in an Array of Documents
-------------------------------------------------------------

Use the Array Index to Query for a Field in the Embedded Document
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Using the :term:`dot notation`, you can specify query conditions for
field in a document at a particular index or position of the array. The
array uses zero-based indexing.

The following example selects all documents where the ``instock`` array
has as its first element a document that contains the field ``qty``
whose value is less than or equal to ``20``:

.. class:: copyable-code

.. code-block:: javascript

   db.inventory.find( { 'instock.0.qty': { $lte: 20 } } )

Specify a Query Condition on a Field Embedded in an Array of Documents
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

If you do not know the index position of the document nested in the
array, concatenate the name of the array field, with a dot (``.``) and
the name of the field in the nested document.

The following example selects all documents where the ``instock`` array
has at least one embedded document that contains the field ``qty``
whose value is less than or equal to ``20``:

.. class:: copyable-code

.. code-block:: javascript

   db.inventory.find( { 'instock.qty': { $lte: 20 } } )

Specify Multiple Conditions for Array of Documents
--------------------------------------------------

When specifying conditions on more than one field nested in an array of
documents, you can specify the query such that either a single document
meets these condition or any combination of documents (including a
single document) in the array meets the conditions.

A Single Nested Document Meets Multiple Query Conditions on Nested Fields
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Use :query:`$elemMatch` operator to specify multiple criteria on an
array of embedded documents such that at least one embedded document
satisfies all the specified criteria.

The following example queries for documents where the ``instock`` array
has at least one embedded document that contains both the field
``qty`` equal to ``5`` and the field ``warehouse`` equal
to ``A``:

.. class:: copyable-code

.. code-block:: javascript

   db.inventory.find( { "instock": { $elemMatch: { qty: 5, warehouse: "A" } } } )

The following example queries for documents where the ``instock`` array
has at least one embedded document that contains the field ``qty`` that
is greater than ``10`` and less than or equal to ``20``:

.. class:: copyable-code

.. code-block:: javascript

   db.inventory.find( { "instock": { $elemMatch: { qty: { $gt: 10, $lte: 20 } } } } )

Combination of Elements Satisfies the Criteria
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

If the compound query conditions on an array field do not use the
:query:`$elemMatch` operator, the query selects those documents whose
array contains any combination of elements that satisfies the
conditions.

For example, the following query matches documents where any document
nested in the ``instock`` array has the ``qty`` field greater than
``10`` and any document (but not necessarily the same embedded
document) in the array has the ``qty`` field less than or equal to
``20``:

.. class:: copyable-code

.. code-block:: javascript

   db.inventory.find( { "instock.qty": { $gt: 10,  $lte: 20 } } )

The following example queries for documents where the ``instock`` array
has at least one embedded document that contains the field ``qty``
equal to ``5`` and at least one embedded document (but not necessarily
the same embedded document) that contains the field ``warehouse`` equal
to ``A``:

.. class:: copyable-code

.. code-block:: javascript

   db.inventory.find( { "instock.qty": 5, "instock.warehouse": "A" } )

Additional Query Tutorials
--------------------------

For additional query examples, see:

- :doc:`/tutorial/query-arrays`

- :doc:`/tutorial/query-documents`

- :doc:`/tutorial/query-embedded-documents`
