==============================================
Remove Shards from an Existing Sharded Cluster
==============================================

.. default-domain:: mongodb

To remove a :term:`shard` you must ensure the shard's data is migrated
to the remaining shards in the cluster. This procedure describes how to
safely migrate data and how to remove a shard.

This procedure describes how to safely remove a *single* shard. *Do not*
use this procedure to migrate an entire cluster to new hardware. To
migrate an entire shard to new hardware, migrate individual shards as if
they were independent replica sets.

.. DOCS-94 will lead to a tutorial about cluster migrations. In the
   mean time the above section will necessarily lack links.

To remove a shard, first connect to one of the cluster's
:program:`mongos` instances using :program:`mongo` shell. Then follow
the ordered sequence of tasks on this page:

1. :ref:`remove-shard-ensure-balancer-is-active`

#. :ref:`remove-shard-determine-name-shard`

#. :ref:`remove-shard-remove-chunks`

#. :ref:`remove-shard-check-migration-status`

#. :ref:`remove-shard-move-unsharded-databases`

#. :ref:`remove-shard-finalize-migration`

.. _remove-shard-ensure-balancer-is-active:

Ensure the Balancer Process is Active
-------------------------------------

To successfully migrate data from a shard, the :term:`balancer` process
**must** be active. Check the balancer state using the
:method:`sh.getBalancerState()` helper in the :program:`mongo` shell.
For more information, see the section on :ref:`balancer operations
<sharding-balancing-disable-temporally>`.

.. _remove-shard-determine-name-shard:

Determine the Name of the Shard to Remove
-----------------------------------------

To determine the name of the shard, do one of the following:

- From the ``admin`` database, run the :dbcommand:`listShards` command.

   db.runCommand( { listShards: 1 } )

- Run either the :method:`sh.status()` method or the
  :method:`db.printShardingStatus()` method.

The ``shards._id`` field lists the name of each shard.

.. _remove-shard-remove-chunks:

Remove Chunks from the Shard
----------------------------

Run the :dbcommand:`removeShard` command. This begins "draining" chunks
from the shard you are removing to other shards in the cluster. For
example, for a shard named ``mongodb0``, run:

.. code-block:: javascript

   db.runCommand( { removeShard: "mongodb0" } )

This operation returns immediately, with the following response:

.. code-block:: javascript

   { msg : "draining started successfully" , state: "started" , shard :"mongodb0" , ok : 1 }

Depending on your network capacity and the amount of data, this
operation can take from a few minutes to several days to complete.

.. _remove-shard-check-migration-status:

Check the Status of the Migration
---------------------------------

To check the progress of the migration at any stage in the process, run
:dbcommand:`removeShard`. For example, for a shard named ``mongodb0``, run:

.. code-block:: javascript

   db.runCommand( { removeShard: "mongodb0" } )

The command returns output similar to the following:

.. code-block:: javascript

   { msg: "draining ongoing" , state: "ongoing" , remaining: { chunks: NumberLong(42), dbs : NumberLong(1) }, ok: 1 }

In the output, the ``remaining`` document displays the remaining number
of chunks that MongoDB must migrate to other shards and the number of
MongoDB databases that have "primary" status on this shard.

Continue checking the status of the `removeShard` command until the
number of chunks remaining is ``0``. Then proceed to the next step.

.. _remove-shard-move-unsharded-databases:

Move Unsharded Data
-------------------

If the shard is the :term:`primary shard` for one or more databases in
the cluster, then the shard will have unsharded data. If the shard is
not the primary shard for any databases, skip to the next task,
:ref:`remove-shard-finalize-migration`.

In a cluster, a database with unsharded collections stores those
collections only on a single shard. That shard becomes the primary shard
for that database. (Different databases in a cluster can have different
primary shards.)

.. warning::

   Do not perform this procedure until you have finished draining the
   shard.

1. To determine if the shard you are removing is the primary shard for
   any of the cluster's databases, issue one of the following methods:

   - :method:`sh.status()`

   - :method:`db.printShardingStatus()`

   In the resulting document, the ``databases`` field lists each
   database and its primary shard. For example, the following
   ``database`` field shows that the ``products`` database uses
   ``mongodb0`` as the primary shard:

   .. code-block:: javascript

      {  "_id" : "products",  "partitioned" : true,  "primary" : "mongodb0" }

#. To move a database to another shard, use the :dbcommand:`movePrimary`
   command. For example, to migrate all remaining unsharded data from
   ``mongodb0`` to ``mongodb1``, issue the following command:

   .. code-block:: javascript

      db.runCommand( { movePrimary: "products", to: "mongodb1" })

   This command does not return until MongoDB completes moving all data,
   which may take a long time. The response from this command will
   resemble the following:

   .. code-block:: javascript

      { "primary" : "mongodb1", "ok" : 1 }

.. _remove-shard-finalize-migration:

Finalize the Migration
----------------------

To clean up all metadata information and finalize the removal, run
:dbcommand:`removeShard` again. For example, for a shard named
``mongodb0``, run:

.. code-block:: javascript

   db.runCommand( { removeShard: "mongodb0" } )

A success message appears at completion:

.. code-block:: javascript

   { msg: "remove shard completed successfully" , stage: "completed", host: "mongodb0", ok : 1 }

Once the value of the ``stage`` field is "completed", you may safely
stop the processes comprising the ``mongodb0`` shard.
