=================================
Specify a Language for Text Index
=================================

.. default-domain:: mongodb

This tutorial describes how to :ref:`specify the default language
associated with the text index <specify-default-language-text-index>`
and also how to :ref:`create text indexes for collections that contain
documents in different languages
<select-from-multiple-languages-for-text-index>`.

.. _specify-default-language-text-index:

Specify the Default Language for a ``text`` Index
-------------------------------------------------

The default language associated with the indexed data determines the
rules to parse word roots (i.e. stemming) and ignore stop words. The
default language for the indexed data is ``english``.

To specify a different language, use the ``default_language`` option
when creating the ``text`` index. See :ref:`text-search-languages` for
the languages available for ``default_language``.

The following example creates for the ``quotes`` collection a ``text``
index on the ``content`` field and sets the ``default_language`` to
``spanish``:

.. code-block:: javascript

   db.quotes.ensureIndex(
      { content : "text" },
      { default_language: "spanish" }
   )

.. _select-from-multiple-languages-for-text-index:

Create a ``text`` Index for a Collection in Multiple Languages
--------------------------------------------------------------

.. versionchanged:: 2.6

   Added support for language overrides within sub-documents.

Specify the Index Language within the Document
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

If a collection contains documents or sub-documents that are in
different languages, include a field named ``language`` in the
documents or sub-documents and specify as its value the language for
that document or sub-document.

MongoDB will use the specified language for that document or
sub-document when building the ``text`` index:

- The specified language in the document overrides the default language
  for the ``text`` index.

- The specified language in a sub-document override the language
  specified in an enclosing document or the default language for the
  index.

See :ref:`text-search-languages` for a list of supported languages.

For example, a collection ``quotes`` contains multi-language documents
that include the ``language`` field in the document and/or the
sub-document as needed:

.. code-block:: javascript

   {
      _id: 1,
      language: "portuguese",
      original: "A sorte protege os audazes.",
      translation:
        [
           {
              language: "english",
              quote: "Fortune favors the bold."
           },
           {
              language: "spanish",
              quote: "La suerte protege a los audaces."
           }
       ]
   }
   {
      _id: 2,
      language: "spanish",
      original: "Nada hay más surrealista que la realidad.",
      translation:
         [
           {
             language: "english",
             quote: "There is nothing more surreal than reality."
           },
           {
             language: "french",
             quote: "Il n'y a rien de plus surréaliste que la réalité."
           }
         ]
   }
   {
      _id: 3,
      original: "is this a dagger which I see before me.",
      translation:
      {
         language: "spanish",
         quote: "Es este un puñal que veo delante de mí."
      }
   }

If you create a ``text`` index on the ``quote`` field with the default
language of English.

.. code-block:: javascript

   db.quotes.ensureIndex( { original: "text", "translation.quote": "text" } )

Then, for the documents and subdocuments that contain the ``language``
field, the ``text`` index uses that language to parse word stems and
other linguistic characteristics.

For sub-documents that do not contain the ``language`` field,

- If the enclosing document contains the ``language`` field, then the
  index uses the document's language for the sub-document.

- Otherwise, the index uses the default language for the sub-documents.

For documents that do not contain the ``language`` field, the index
uses the default language, which is English.

.. _specify-language-field-text-index-example:

Use any Field to Specify the Language for a Document
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To use a field with a name other than ``language``, include
the ``language_override`` option when creating the index.

For example, give the following command to use ``idioma`` as the field
name instead of ``language``:

.. code-block:: javascript

   db.quotes.ensureIndex( { quote : "text" },
                          { language_override: "idioma" } )

The documents of the ``quotes`` collection may specify a language with
the ``idioma`` field:

.. code-block:: javascript

   { _id: 1, idioma: "portuguese", quote: "A sorte protege os audazes" }
   { _id: 2, idioma: "spanish", quote: "Nada hay más surrealista que la realidad." }
   { _id: 3, idioma: "english", quote: "is this a dagger which I see before me" }
