================
Data Aggregation
================

.. default-domain:: mongodb

.. include:: /includes/introduction-aggregation.rst
   :start-after: start-primer-excerpt

.. Changed from Concepts because other there isn't much concept
   Other than stages.

Aggregation Pipeline
--------------------

The primary tool for data aggregation is the :manual:`aggregation
pipeline </core/aggregation-pipeline>`, which is a stage-based method
for describing a sequence of data processing steps. The aggregation
process begins with all of the documents in a :term:`collection`, and
then passes these documents through a sequence of stages.

MongoDB provides the :method:`db.collection.aggregate()` method to
perform aggregation pipeline operation and :ref:`pipeline stage
operators <aggregation-expression-operators>` to define the stages.
Each stage describes a data processing step.

.. We may or may not need the following paragraph and diagram

The following diagram shows an example of an aggregation pipeline
operation. The :pipeline:`$match` stage performs a basic query, like
the :method:`~db.collection.find()` method, and passes only the
documents that match a query expression to the next stage of the
pipeline. The :pipeline:`$group` stage groups documents by the
``cust_id`` field and calculates the ``total`` for each group.

.. include:: /images/aggregation-pipeline.rst

Prerequisite
------------

The procedure in this section query the ``orders`` collection in the
``test`` database.

.. include:: /includes/steps/getting-started-aggregation-prereq.rst

Procedure
---------

.. include:: /includes/steps/getting-started-aggregation.rst

Additional Information
----------------------

For more information on aggregation, see :manual:`Aggregation
documentation </aggregation>` in the MongoDB Manual.

Consider also the complete :manual:`Aggregation Operator Reference
</reference/operator/aggregation>`, and if you're familiar with SQL
aggregation operations, consider the :manual:`SQL to Aggregation
Mapping Chart </reference/sql-aggregation-comparison>`.

For additional aggregation pipeline tutorials, see :manual:`zip code
aggregation example set </tutorial/aggregation-zip-code-data-set>` and
the :manual:`user preference aggregation example set
</tutorial/aggregation-with-user-preference-data>`.
