.. _fts20251124:

24 November 2025 Release 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Adds preview support for lexical prefilters for Vector Search with the addition of 
  the :ref:`vectorSearch operator <fts-vectorSearch-ref>` and the :ref:`vector index type <bson-data-types-vector>`. 
  This allows you to filter documents by analyzed text capabilities such a fuzzy 
  search, phrase matching, location filtering, wildcard pattern matching, and so 
  on before performing vector similarity searches.

.. _fts20251106:

06 November 2025 Release 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Deduplicate storage cost for string fields indexed with ``multi``.
- Fixes an issue with ``token`` field types when faceting on high cardinality fields.

.. _fts20251001:

21 October 2025 Release 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Supports :ref:`querying, filtering, and retrieving <fts-return-scope>`
  objects within arrays as individual documents using
  ``returnScope``.

  - Adds :ref:`hasRoot <has-root-ref>` operator for querying root
    document fields when using ``returnScope``. 
  - Adds :ref:`hasAncestor <has-ancestor-ref>` operator for querying
    higher-level or equal-level fields when using ``returnScope``. 
  - Supports storing nested fields in :ref:`array of objects
    <bson-data-types-embedded-documents>` using :ref:`storedSource
    <fts-stored-source-definition>` for retrieval with 
    :ref:`returnStoredSource <fts-return-stored-source-option>` for
    queries using any operator. 

.. _fts20250925:

25 September 2025 Release
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Adds support for configuring dynamic indexing with ``typeSets``. To learn more, see
  :ref:`fts-configure-dynamic-mappings`.
- Starting with :manual:`MongoDB 8.0.14 </release-notes/8.0/#8.0.14-changelog>`,
  the ``returnStoredSource`` and ``scoreDetails`` options must be set to ``true`` or
  ``false``. Queries that specify ``null`` for these options will fail.
- Adds support for specifying the ``stableTfl`` or ``boolean``
  similarity algorithms when indexing ``string`` fields as the |fts|
  :ref:`string <bson-data-types-string>` and :ref:`autocomplete
  <bson-data-types-autocomplete>` types. These algorithms are applied at
  query time to calculate |fts| scores with the :ref:`text <text-ref>`,
  :ref:`phrase <phrase-ref>`, :ref:`queryString <querystring-ref>`, and
  :ref:`autocomplete <autocomplete-ref>` operators. To learn more, see
  :ref:`Score Details <fts-similarity-algorithms>`.

.. _fts20250922:

22 September 2025 Release
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Improves highlight loading by always retrieving highlights from the base
  string field.
- Skips downloads of snapshots that exceed the configured age threshold.
- Updates blobstore credential handling to use the new ``refreshDate`` field
  instead of the deprecated ``expirationDate`` field.
- Adds a required memory usage metric.

.. _fts20250710:

10 July 2025 Release
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Adds support for new token filter types ``keywordRepeat`` and
  ``removeDuplicates`` for :ref:`custom analyzers <custom-analyzers>`.
- Removes support for deprecated ``kp`` and ``lovins`` stemmers for the
  :ref:`snowballStemming <snowballstemming-tf-ref>` token filter type.
- Changes the ``german`` stemmer's handling of umlauts, so that the
  German letters ä, ö, and ü, are expanded to ae, oe, and ue,
  respectively. 
- The ``german2`` stemmer is now outdated.

.. _fts20250625:

25 June 2025 Release 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- :manual:`MongoDB v8.1 </release-notes/8.2/#support-for-search-index-commands-on-views>` supports: 
  
  - Creating search indexes on Views using :binary:`~bin.mongosh` and :driver:`Driver </>`
    methods. 
  - Running ``$search`` and ``$searchMeta`` queries against standard Views.

.. _ fts20250610:

10 June 2025 Release
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Introduces structured JSON :ref:`mongot logs <mongot-logs>`.
- Adds the ability to facet on :ref:`token <bson-data-types-token>` 
  types. :ref:`stringFacet <bson-data-types-string-facet>` is still supported but is now 
  outdated.

.. _fts20250124:

24 January 2025 Release
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Adds the ability to facet on :ref:`number <bson-data-types-number>` and
  :ref:`date<bson-data-types-date>`. :ref:`numberFacet<bson-data-types-number-facet>` and
  :ref:`dateFacet<bson-data-types-date-facet>` are still supported but are now outdated. 
- Supports :ref:`fts-facet-ref` groupings on numbers and dates in arrays.
