============
FAQ: Indexes
============

.. default-domain:: mongodb

This document addresses common questions regarding MongoDB indexes.

If you don't find the answer you're looking for, check the
:doc:`complete list of FAQs </faq>` or post your question to the
`MongoDB User Mailing List <https://groups.google.com/forum/?fromgroups#!forum/mongodb-user>`_.
See also :doc:`/applications/indexes`.

.. contents:: Frequently Asked Questions:
   :backlinks: none
   :local:

Should you run ``ensureIndex()`` after every insert?
----------------------------------------------------

No. You only need to create an index once for a single
collection. After initial creation, MongoDB automatically updates the
index as data changes.

While running :method:`ensureIndex() <db.collection.ensureIndex()>` is
usually ok, if an index doesn't exist because of ongoing administrative
work, a call to :method:`ensureIndex() <db.collection.ensureIndex()>`
may disrupt database availability. Running :method:`ensureIndex()
<db.collection.ensureIndex()>` can render a replica set inaccessible as
the index creation is happening. See :ref:`index-building-replica-sets`.

How do you know what indexes exist in a collection?
---------------------------------------------------

To list a collection's indexes, use the
:method:`db.collection.getIndexes()` method or a similar
:api:`method for your driver <>`.

How do you determine the size of an index?
------------------------------------------

To check the sizes of the indexes on a collection, use :method:`db.collection.stats()`.

.. todo:: FAQ How do I determine if an index fits into RAM?

What happens if an index does not fit into RAM?
-----------------------------------------------

When an index is too large to fit into RAM, MongoDB must read the index
from disk, which is a much slower operation than reading from RAM. Keep
in mind an index fits into RAM when your server has RAM available for
the index combined with the rest of the :term:`working set`.

In certain cases, an index does not need to fit *entirely* into RAM. For
details, see :ref:`indexing-right-handed`.

.. todo:: FAQ How does MongoDB determine what index to use?

How do you know what index a query used?
----------------------------------------

To inspect how MongoDB processes a query, use the :method:`explain()
<cursor.explain()>` method in the :program:`mongo` shell, or in your
application driver.

How do you determine what fields to index?
------------------------------------------

A number of factors determine what fields to index, including
:ref:`selectivity <index-selectivity>`, fitting indexes into RAM,
reusing indexes in multiple queries when possible, and creating indexes
that can support all the fields in a given query. For detailed
documentation on choosing which fields to index, see
:doc:`/applications/indexes`.

.. todo:: FAQ How do I guarantee a query uses an index?
   MongoDB's query optimizer always looks for the most advantageous
   index to use. You cannot guarantee use of a particular index, but you
   can write indexes with your queries in mind. For detailed
   documentation on creating optimal indexes, see
   :doc:`/applications/indexes`.

How do write operations affect indexes?
---------------------------------------

Any write operation that alters an indexed field requires an update to
the index in addition to the document itself. If you update a document
that causes the document to grow beyond the allotted record size, then
MongoDB must update all indexes that include this document as part of
the update operation.

Therefore, if your application is write-heavy, creating too many
indexes might affect performance.

Will building a large index affect database performance?
--------------------------------------------------------

Building an index can be an IO-intensive operation, especially if you
have a large collection. This is true on any database system that
supports secondary indexes, including MySQL. If you need to build an
index on a large collection, consider building the index in the
background. See :ref:`index-creation-operations`.

If you build a large index without the background option, and if doing
so causes the database to stop responding,
wait for the index to finish building.

.. FUTURE When SERVER-3067 is fixed, this option also will be available:
   Kill the current operation (see :method:`db.killOp()`). The partial
   index will be deleted.

Using ``$ne`` and ``$nin`` in a query is slow. Why?
---------------------------------------------------

The :operator:`$ne` and :operator:`$nin` operators are not selective.
See :ref:`index-selectivity`. If you need to use these,
it is often best to make sure that an additional, more selective
criterion is part of the query.

.. _faq-index-min-max:

Can I use index keys to constrain query matches?
------------------------------------------------

You can use the :method:`min() <cursor.min()>` and the :method:`max()
<cursor.max()>` methods to constrain the results of the cursor returned
from :method:`find() <db.collection.find()>` by using the index keys.
