.. _atlas-api-maintenanceWindows-resetMaintenanceWindow:

===================================================
atlas api maintenanceWindows resetMaintenanceWindow
===================================================

.. default-domain:: mongodb

.. contents:: On this page
   :local:
   :backlinks: none
   :depth: 1
   :class: singlecol

`experimental <https://www.mongodb.com/docs/atlas/cli/current/command/atlas-api/>`_: Resets the maintenance window for the specified project.

To use this resource, the requesting API Key must have the Project Owner role. Urgent maintenance activities such as security patches can't wait for your chosen window. MongoDB Cloud starts those maintenance activities when needed. After you schedule maintenance for your cluster, you can't change your maintenance window until the current maintenance efforts complete. The maintenance procedure that MongoDB Cloud performs requires at least one replica set election during the maintenance window per replica set. Maintenance always begins as close to the scheduled hour as possible, but in-progress cluster updates or unexpected system issues could delay the start time. To use this resource, the requesting API Key must have the Project Owner role.

This command is autogenerated and corresponds 1:1 with the Atlas API endpoint https://www.mongodb.com/docs/atlas/reference/api-resources-spec/v2/#tag/Maintenance-Windows/operation/resetMaintenanceWindow.

For more information and examples, see the referenced API documentation linked above.

Syntax
------

.. code-block::
   :caption: Command Syntax

   atlas api maintenanceWindows resetMaintenanceWindow [options]

.. Code end marker, please don't delete this comment

Options
-------

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1
   :widths: 20 10 10 60

   * - Name
     - Type
     - Required
     - Description
   * - --envelope
     - 
     - false
     - flag that indicates whether Application wraps the response in an envelope JSON object
   * - --groupId
     - string
     - true
     - unique 24-hexadecimal digit string that identifies your project
   * - -h, --help
     - 
     - false
     - help for resetMaintenanceWindow
   * - --output
     - string
     - false
     - preferred api format, can be ["json", go-template] This value defaults to "json".
   * - --output-file
     - string
     - false
     - file to write the api output to. This flag is required when the output of an endpoint is binary (ex: gzip) and the command is not piped (ex: atlas command > out.zip)
   * - --version
     - string
     - false
     - api version to use when calling the api call [options: "2023-01-01"], defaults to the latest version or the profiles api_version config value if set This value defaults to "2023-01-01".

Inherited Options
-----------------

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1
   :widths: 20 10 10 60

   * - Name
     - Type
     - Required
     - Description
   * - -P, --profile
     - string
     - false
     - Name of the profile to use from your configuration file. To learn about profiles for the Atlas CLI, see https://dochub.mongodb.org/core/atlas-cli-save-connection-settings.

