======
Create
======

.. default-domain:: mongodb

Create operation adds new :term:`documents <document>` to a
:term:`collection`. MongoDB provides the :ref:`insert() <insert>`
method to perform create operations. Additionally, the :ref:`update()
with upsert option <update_and_save>` method and the :ref:`save()
<update_and_save>` method also provide functionality to create
documents.

All three methods exhibit the following behavior during the create
operation:

- If the new document does not specify an :term:`_id` field, these
  methods will add the ``_id`` field to the document and assign as
  its value a unique :term:`objectid`.

- If the document specifies a new field, these methods will add
  the document with the new field **without** requiring a schema change
  to the collection or any change to the existing documents.

Keep in mind that MongoDB v2.2 has a limit on document size of 16
megabytes (MB).


.. _insert:

Insert()
--------

The :method:`insert() <db.collection.insert()>` method is the primary
method to insert a document or documents into a collection. The
:method:`insert() <db.collection.insert()>` is analogous to the ``SQL
INSERT`` except the :method:`insert() <db.collection.insert()>` method
provides these additional functionalities:

- If the collection does not exist, then the :method:`insert()
  <db.collection.insert()>` method will create the collection.

- If the new document does not specify an ``_id`` field, then
  :method:`insert() <db.collection.insert()>` will add the ``_id``
  field to the document and assign a unique ``objectid`` as its
  value.
  
- If passed an array of documents, the :method:`insert()
  <db.collection.insert()>` method can perform bulk inserts into a
  collection.

.. _update_and_save:

Update() with Upsert Option and Save()
--------------------------------------

Both the :method:`update() <db.collection.update()>` method and the
:method:`save() <db.collection.save()>` method will be discussed in
fuller detail in the Update section. But a quick introduction to their
insert capabilities is presented here for completeness.

Update() with Upsert Option
````````````````````````````

The :method:`update() with upsert option <db.collection.update()>` or
an ``upsert`` will insert a single document into a collection if no
document exists that matches the update query criteria. The inserted
document will contain the fields and values of both the update query
criteria and the update operation. If the ``_id`` is not specified in
either the query criteria and the update operation documents, the
``upsert`` will add the ``_id`` field to the document and assign a
unique ``objectid`` as its value.

The ``upsert`` removes the need to perform a separate query to
check for the existence of a record before performing either an insert
or an update.

Save()
``````

The :method:`save() <db.collection.save()>` will insert a document into
a :term:`collection` if the document does not contain the ``_id`` field
or contains an ``_id`` field with a value not in the collection. If the
``_id`` is not specified in the document parameter, :method:`save()
<db.collection.save()>` will add the ``_id`` field to the document
and assign a unique ``objectid`` as its value.
