=======
Billing
=======

.. default-domain:: mongodb

.. contents:: On this page
   :local:
   :backlinks: none
   :depth: 1
   :class: singlecol

|service| charges by the hour for your MongoDB clusters. |service| tabulates
costs daily and displays your current monthly costs in the upper right corner.
To view line-item charges, click |service| :guilabel:`Settings`, then
:guilabel:`Billing/Subscriptions`, and then the :guilabel:`Usage Details` link.

As you create or modify a cluster, you can compare the costs of different
options before applying them. |service| displays the costs, except for data
transfer, in a :guilabel:`Cluster Overview` box.

.. note::

   The :guilabel:`Cluster Overview` box does not display :ref:`data transfer
   costs <data-transfer-costs>`.

.. _instance-size-costs:

Instance Size
-------------

|service| provides different instance sizes. Each has a default RAM
size, storage capacity, and maximum storage speed, which is included in the
instance's per-hour charge. The instance size you select is used for all the
data-bearing [#data-bearing]_ servers in your cluster.

|service| provides default amounts of data storage as part of the base
per-hour cost of your instance. If you add capacity or speed, you incur
additional costs on top of the base cost. The :guilabel:`Cluster Overview` box
shows your overall charges.

Storage Capacity
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

|service| charges for storage capacity differently depending on whether you
use the instance default or a custom size. If you use the default, storage is
included in the instance's per-hour cost. If you customize, |service| charges
for the entire amount of storage, not the difference from the default size.

For example, if the instance default is 80 GB and if you increase storage to
81 GB, the change in costs is the charge for 81 GB. If you then increase
storage to 82 GB, the change in cost is the charge for 1 GB.

Custom Storage Speed
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

|service| measures storage speed as maximum IOPS (Input/Output Operations Per
Second). Each |service| :ref:`instance type <instance-size-costs>` offers a
:guilabel:`Standard` storage speed that is included in the instance's per-hour
cost. The maximum IOPS of the standard speed depend on the instance type.

For most instance types, you can increase storage speed from
:guilabel:`Standard` to :guilabel:`Fast` or :guilabel:`Fastest`, which affects
costs. Selecting a custom speed changes both IOPS and the type of storage
used. The storage type changes from a general-purpose SSD to a provisioned-IOPS
SSD. For more information on storage types, see
`<http://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/EBSVolumeTypes.html>`_.

.. _data-transfer-costs:

Data Transfer
-------------

|service| charges for data transfer according to where the data originates.
|service| tabulates data transfer costs daily. Charges for data transfer
increase as follows, from lowest to highest:

- Data transfer with a server in the same :ref:`region <region-costs>`.

- Data transfer with a server in a different :ref:`region <region-costs>`.

- Data transfer with a server on the Internet.

.. _region-costs:

Region
------

|service| provides different regions to select from for your deployment.
Instance and storage costs vary by region.

The region you choose affects data transfer charges, as described in the
:ref:`data-transfer-costs` section.

.. _server-number-costs:

Number of Servers
-----------------

|service| charges the instance cost and data storage cost for each
data-bearing server [#data-bearing]_ in your cluster. For a replica set, the
number of data-bearing servers equals the replication factor. For a sharded
cluster, the number of data-bearing servers equals the replication factor
multiplied by the number of shards.

If you enable sharding, |service| will also run three :ref:`config servers
<sharding-config-server>` in addition to your data-bearing servers. Your
selections for instance size and data storage do not affect the costs of the
config servers. Config servers are charged at a separate rate. Their cost is
reflected in the cost of the cluster.

.. [#data-bearing]

   For replica sets, the data-bearing servers are the servers hosting the
   replica set members. For sharded clusters, the data-bearing servers are the
   servers hosting the shards. For sharded clusters, |service| also deploys
   servers for the :ref:`config servers <sharding-config-server>`; these are
   charged at a rate separate from the instance costs.
