============
MMS Overview
============

MMS (MongoDB Monitoring Service) is a service for monitoring MongoDB
infrastructure. MMS was created by 10gen and is provided for all users
of MongoDB. Designed with security and ease of use, MMS collects
statistics on all key server and hardware indicators and then presents
the data in a powerful web console. The data is a great asset when
optimizing applications during development and potentially invaluable
when diagnosing production issues. For sharded clusters consisting of
dozens of nodes, MMS is particularly useful because it provides a
holistic overview of MongoDB deployments so that administrators can
asses quickly the health clusters.

How MMS works
-------------

MMS is deployed by installing a lightweight monitoring agent in the
server environment. A single agent can monitor an entire deployment of
``mongod`` and ``mongos`` instances. The agent pulls data about your
environment that you provide from MMS and automatically discovers
MongoDB nodes in your deployment using this "seed" information. The
agent then regularly pushes data to MMS, which MMS uses to provide
reports on metrics that include memory usage, ops per second, and open
connections: if enabled, MMS can also track system performance
including CPU load and I/O activity. The web interface then displays
the status of each MongoDB instance, as well as historical graphs for
all collected data. You can create custom dashboards, perform
side-by-side data comparisons, and re-plot charts on different
timescales to aid analysis.

Security
--------

All metrics are transmitted by the agent to the MMS servers over SSL
(128-bit encryption), and agent traffic is exclusively outbound. The
monitoring agent is a Python script, and you're free to examine its
source code. No data is pushed from MMS to the agent. The agent is
subject to firewalls and contains support for MongoDB authentication.
Monitored services are only discovered when the agent fetches
information provided to MMS or from other members of the cluster. Only
server metrics are recorded: the collection of hardware and
application data must be explicitly enabled. The web interface is
secured over SSL, and extensive data access controls and audits are in
place to ensure that the safety of your data.

Installation
------------

MMS is compatible with all varieties of MongoDB deployments, whether
they are hosted on physical hardware or in the cloud. The agent and server
installation is quick and straightforward, meaningful results are
available through the web interface in minutes. See the :doc:`install`
and `mms.10gen.com <http://mms.10gen.com>`_ for more information.
