=================
Respond to Alerts
=================

.. default-domain:: mongodb

.. contents:: On this page
   :local:
   :backlinks: none
   :depth: 1
   :class: singlecol

Introduction
------------

|service| issues alerts when selected cluster metrics reach pre-defined
thresholds. When a condition triggers an alert, you receive the alert at
regular intervals until the condition resolves or |service| cancels the alert.
Your :doc:`alert settings </configure-alerts>` list the types of alerts you
can receive.

|service| notifies you of alerts through a warning symbol on the cluster and
through additional notification methods configured in :doc:`alert settings
</configure-alerts>`, such as email. |service| displays alert details in the
:guilabel:`Alerts` tab.

View Alerts
-----------

To view an alert, click the :guilabel:`Alerts` tab.

Acknowledge Alerts
------------------

To acknowledge an alert, click the :guilabel:`Alerts` tab, locate the alert,
and click :guilabel:`Acknowledge`.

If an alert uses PagerDuty for alert notifications, you can acknowledge the
alert only on your PagerDuty dashboard.

When you acknowledge an alert, |service| sends no further notifications to the
distribution list until either the acknowledgement period ends, you resolve
the alert, or you unacknowledge it. The distribution list receives *no*
notification of an acknowledgment. If an alert condition ends during an
acknowledgment period, |service| sends a notification.

|service| cancels an alert if the alert setting that triggered the alert is
deleted, disabled, or edited, or if the open alert becomes invalid. When an
alert is canceled, |service| does not send a notification and does not record
an entry on the |service| :guilabel:`Alerts` lists.

Increase Cluster Capacity
-------------------------

To resolve an alert by increasing your cluster's capacity, see
:doc:`/scale-cluster`.

View All Activity
-----------------

To view cluster events, click the :guilabel:`Alerts` tab, then click
:guilabel:`All Activity`. You can filter the list by date and by activity
type.

To download the list, click the :guilabel:`Download Activity Feed` button.
