.. _faq-automation:

===============
FAQ: Automation
===============

This addresses common questions about |mms| and its Automation
features.

|mms| can automate management operations for your monitored MongoDB
processes, allowing you to reconfigure, stop, and restart MongoDB
through the |mms| interface.

|mms| Automation can run only on 64-bit architectures.

.. default-domain:: mongodb

.. contents:: On this page
   :local:
   :backlinks: none
   :depth: 1
   :class: singlecol

What versions of MongoDB does |mms| manage?
-------------------------------------------

For specific |mms| functions and supported MongoDB versions, see
:doc:`/reference/mongodb-compatibility`.

.. cond:: onprem

   What are the upgrade paths for |onprem| versions 1.8.x and 2.0.x?
   -----------------------------------------------------------------

   For upgrade paths, see :doc:`Upgrade Ops Manager </tutorial/nav/upgrade-application>`.

How does |mms| manage MongoDB deployments?
------------------------------------------

.. TODO This information should be incorporated into the main content
   of the manual and not hidden in an FAQ.

.. cond:: onprem

   After you deploy the {+aagent+} in the environment of the
   MongoDB deployment, each agent periodically communicates with |mms|
   and performs any required work.

.. cond:: cloud

   After you provision servers in |mms| or deploy the {+aagent+}
   in the environment of the MongoDB deployment, each agent
   periodically communicates with |mms| and performs any required work.

Agents constantly reassess their environment to adapt their work as
necessary. If an agent encounters an issue, such as
network connectivity problems or |mms| failure, the agents adjust
their work to compensate and safely arrive at their goal state.

Agents create plans to move from their current state to a goal state. 
Plans execute in steps, where each step is autonomous and independent 
of other steps.

.. example::

   For an installation, the plan involves downloading MongoDB, starting
   the process with the appropriate command line options, initializing
   the replica set, waiting for a healthy majority. The configuration
   reaches goal state when the replica set is active and has a healthy
   majority.

How many {+aagent+}s do I need?
-------------------------------------

To use Automation, you must have an agent running on every host where
a managed MongoDB instance runs.

Is any MongoDB data transferred by the {+aagent+}?
--------------------------------------------------------

Agents do *not* transmit any data records from a MongoDB deployment.
The agents only communicate deployment configuration information and
MongoDB logs.

Will |mms| handle failures during an upgrade?
---------------------------------------------

Generally speaking, yes. The design of the management and automation
components of |mms| do not account for *all* possible failures; however
the architecture of the system can work around many types of failures.


What types of deployment can I create in |mms|?
-----------------------------------------------

.. include:: /includes/compatible-mongodb-deployment-types.rst

.. Cloud Provider questions:

.. include:: /includes/extracts/faq-cloud-providers.rst
