:noprevnext:

.. _geo-spatial-charts:

=================
Geospatial Charts
=================

.. default-domain:: mongodb

.. contents:: On this page
   :local:
   :backlinks: none
   :depth: 1
   :class: singlecol

Placeholder description for the geospatial chart type.

Customization
-------------

To access the available customizations for any chart, click the
:guilabel:`Customization` tab above the :ref:`encoding channels
<encoding-channels>` in the :doc:`Chart Builder </build-charts>`.

.. figure:: /images/charts/geospatial-customization-tab.png
   :figwidth: 242px
   :alt: Geospatial customization tab

Custom Color Palette
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The color palette specifies the range of colors that corresponds to
relative aggregated values in your map. 

:ref:`Geospatial Scatter <scatter-ref>` charts use a discrete color
picker, and :ref:`Geospatial Heatmap <geospatial-heatmap-type>` and
:ref:`Choropleth <choropleth-ref>` charts use a gradient color picker,
but the mechanism to enable customization is the same. To enable
palette customization, toggle the :guilabel:`Custom Color Palette`
switch in the :guilabel:`General Customization` section.

For more information, see :ref:`Color Palette Customization
<color-palette-customization>`.

Automatically Set Viewport
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

By default, geospatial charts show a map which includes all the data
point markers in your specified collection. You can pan and zoom to
change the map view, but if you close the chart and re-open it the map
reverts to its default state. This behavior is controlled by the
:guilabel:`Automatically Set Viewport` option.

When you toggle the :guilabel:`Automatically Set Viewport` switch to
``Off``, the area and zoom level at which the map is saved becomes the
new default view.

.. note::

   You can pan and zoom the map area in a chart on a dashboard, but
   these changes do not affect the default map view.

Opacity
~~~~~~~

The :guilabel:`Opacity` level of a map modifies the degree to which
the chart's map data shows through the data point markers. This
setting is available on all geospatial charts.

On :ref:`Geospatial Heatmap <geospatial-heatmap-type>` and
:ref:`Choropleth <choropleth-ref>` charts, the :guilabel:`Opacity`
level defaults to 100%. On :ref:`Geospatial Scatter <scatter-ref>`
charts, it defaults to 20%.

Radius
~~~~~~

.. include:: /includes/radius-description.rst

Stroke Thickness
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

:ref:`Scatter <scatter-ref>` charts provide the customization option
to set the :guilabel:`Stroke Thickness`, measured in pixels, of the 
map's data point markers. This setting defaults to ``2``.

.. class:: hidden

   .. toctree::
      :titlesonly:

      /chart-type-reference/geospatial-heatmap
