.. _atlas-api-projectIpAccessList-getProjectIpList:

==============================================
atlas api projectIpAccessList getProjectIpList
==============================================

.. default-domain:: mongodb

.. contents:: On this page
   :local:
   :backlinks: none
   :depth: 1
   :class: singlecol

`experimental <https://www.mongodb.com/docs/atlas/cli/current/command/atlas-api/>`_: Returns one access list entry from the specified project's IP access list.

Each entry in the project's IP access list contains either one IP address or one CIDR-notated block of IP addresses. MongoDB Cloud only allows client connections to the cluster from entries in the project's IP access list. To use this resource, the requesting API Key must have the Project Read Only or Project Charts Admin roles. This resource replaces the whitelist resource. MongoDB Cloud removed whitelists in July 2021. Update your applications to use this new resource. This endpoint (/groups/{GROUP-ID}/accessList) manages the Project IP Access List. It doesn't manage the access list for MongoDB Cloud organizations. TheProgrammatic API Keys endpoint (/orgs/{ORG-ID}/apiKeys/{API-KEY-ID}/accesslist) manages those access lists.

This command is autogenerated and corresponds 1:1 with the Atlas API endpoint https://www.mongodb.com/docs/atlas/reference/api-resources-spec/v2/#tag/Project-IP-Access-List/operation/getProjectIpList.

For more information and examples, see the referenced API documentation linked above.

Syntax
------

.. code-block::
   :caption: Command Syntax

   atlas api projectIpAccessList getProjectIpList [options]

.. Code end marker, please don't delete this comment

Options
-------

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1
   :widths: 20 10 10 60

   * - Name
     - Type
     - Required
     - Description
   * - --entryValue
     - string
     - true
     - access list entry that you want to return from the project's IP access list
   * - --envelope
     - 
     - false
     - flag that indicates whether Application wraps the response in an envelope JSON object
   * - --groupId
     - string
     - true
     - unique 24-hexadecimal digit string that identifies your project
   * - -h, --help
     - 
     - false
     - help for getProjectIpList
   * - --output
     - string
     - false
     - preferred api format, can be ["json", go-template] This value defaults to "json".
   * - --output-file
     - string
     - false
     - file to write the api output to. This flag is required when the output of an endpoint is binary (ex: gzip) and the command is not piped (ex: atlas command > out.zip)
   * - --pretty
     - 
     - false
     - flag that indicates whether the response body should be in the prettyprint format
   * - --version
     - string
     - false
     - api version to use when calling the api call [options: "2023-01-01"], defaults to the latest version or the profiles api_version config value if set This value defaults to "2023-01-01".

Inherited Options
-----------------

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1
   :widths: 20 10 10 60

   * - Name
     - Type
     - Required
     - Description
   * - -P, --profile
     - string
     - false
     - Name of the profile to use from your configuration file. To learn about profiles for the Atlas CLI, see https://dochub.mongodb.org/core/atlas-cli-save-connection-settings.

