source/includes/avs-examples/create-embeddings/steps-avs-query-embedding-new-python.rst, before:

.. procedure::
   :style: normal

   .. step:: Create the {+avs+} index.
         
      .. tabs::
         :hidden:
         
         .. tab:: Open-Source
            :tabid: open-source

            .. include:: /includes/avs-examples/create-embeddings/steps-avs-create-index-open-source.rst

         .. tab:: OpenAI
            :tabid: openai

            .. include:: /includes/avs-examples/create-embeddings/steps-avs-create-index-openai.rst

   .. step:: Create embeddings for vector search queries and run a query. 

      .. include:: /includes/avs-run-query-description.rst

      .. tabs::
         :hidden:
         
         .. tab:: Open-Source
            :tabid: open-source

            .. io-code-block:: 
               :copyable: true 
               
               .. input:: /includes/avs-examples/tutorial/vector-search-query-embeddings-new.py
                  :language: python

               .. output:: /includes/avs-examples/tutorial/output-new-open-source-python.json
                  :language: json

         .. tab:: OpenAI
            :tabid: openai

            .. io-code-block:: 
               :copyable: true 
               
               .. input:: /includes/avs-examples/tutorial/vector-search-query-embeddings-new.py
                  :language: python

               .. output:: /includes/avs-examples/tutorial/output-new-openai.json
                  :language: json

Commit message:

(DOCSP-46076): Vector Search: Add comments for writers to update related Jupyter Notebooks (#6671)
* Test comment syntax

* Add comments for create embeddings page

* Add comments for the manage indexes page

* Add comments for the Run Queries page

* Add comments for quantization page

* Add comments to the RAG page

* Add comments for the Semantic Search page

* Add comments to Local RAG page

* Add comments to Llamaindex page

* Add comments to Semantic Kernel integration page

* Add comments to the Haystack integration page

* Add comments for LangChain pages

source/includes/avs-examples/create-embeddings/steps-avs-query-embedding-new-python.rst, after:

.. procedure::
   :style: normal

   .. step:: Create the {+avs+} index.
         
      .. tabs::
         :hidden:
         
         .. tab:: Open-Source
            :tabid: open-source

            .. include:: /includes/avs-examples/create-embeddings/steps-avs-create-index-open-source.rst

         .. tab:: OpenAI
            :tabid: openai

            .. include:: /includes/avs-examples/create-embeddings/steps-avs-create-index-openai.rst

   .. step:: Create embeddings for vector search queries and run a query. 

      .. include:: /includes/avs-run-query-description.rst

      .. tabs::
         :hidden:
         
         .. tab:: Open-Source
            :tabid: open-source

            ..
               NOTE: If you edit this Python file, also update the Jupyter Notebook
               at https://github.com/mongodb/docs-notebooks/blob/main/create-embeddings/open-source-new-data.ipynb

            .. io-code-block:: 
               :copyable: true 
               
               .. input:: /includes/avs-examples/tutorial/vector-search-query-embeddings-new.py
                  :language: python

               .. output:: /includes/avs-examples/tutorial/output-new-open-source-python.json
                  :language: json

         .. tab:: OpenAI
            :tabid: openai

            ..
               NOTE: If you edit this Python code, also update the Jupyter Notebook
               at https://github.com/mongodb/docs-notebooks/blob/main/create-embeddings/openai-new-data.ipynb

            .. io-code-block:: 
               :copyable: true 
               
               .. input:: /includes/avs-examples/tutorial/vector-search-query-embeddings-new.py
                  :language: python

               .. output:: /includes/avs-examples/tutorial/output-new-openai.json
                  :language: json
