source/includes/avs-examples/create-embeddings/steps-avs-create-embeddings-new-node.rst, before:

.. procedure::
   :style: normal
      
   .. step:: Create a file named ``create-embeddings.js`` and paste the following code.
            
      Use the following code to generate embeddings from an existing
      collection in |service|.
      
      Specifically, this code uses the ``getEmbedding`` function 
      that you defined and the MongoDB :driver:`Node.js Driver </nodejs/>` 
      to generate embeddings from an array 
      of sample texts and ingest them into the ``sample_db.embeddings`` 
      collection in |service|.

      .. literalinclude:: /includes/avs-examples/tutorial/create-embeddings-new.js
         :language: javascript
         :copyable:
         :caption: create-embeddings.js

   .. step:: Save and run the file.

      .. tabs::
         :hidden:
         
         .. tab:: Open-Source
            :tabid: open-source
                  
            .. io-code-block:: 
               :copyable: true 

               .. input::

                  node --env-file=.env create-embeddings.js

               .. output:: 
                  :language: sh

                  [ -0.04323853924870491, -0.008460805751383305, 0.012494648806750774, -0.013014335185289383, ... ]
                  [ -0.017400473356246948, 0.04922063276171684, -0.002836339408531785, -0.030395228415727615, ... ]
                  [ -0.016950927674770355, 0.013881809078156948, -0.022074559703469276, -0.02838018536567688, ... ]

         .. tab:: OpenAI
            :tabid: openai

            .. io-code-block:: 
               :copyable: true 

               .. input::

                  node --env-file=.env create-embeddings.js

               .. output:: 
                  :language: sh

                  [ 0.031927742, -0.014192767, -0.021851597, 0.045498233, -0.0077904654, ... ]
                  [ -0.01664538, 0.013198251, 0.048684783, 0.014485021, -0.018121032, ... ]
                  [ 0.030449908, 0.046782598, 0.02126599, 0.025799986, -0.015830345, ... ]

      .. note::

         The number of dimensions in the output have been truncated for
         readability.
       
      You can also view your vector embeddings :ref:`in the {+atlas-ui+}
      <atlas-ui-view-collections>` by navigating to the ``sample_db.embeddings`` 
      collection in your {+cluster+}.

Commit message:

(DOCSP-44356) Update create embeddings > from existing data function. (#6787)
* (DOCSP-44356) Update create embeddings > from existing data function.

* (DOCSP-44356) Implement bulkWrite and insertMany

* (DOCSP-44356) Update output for new console log message.

* (DOCSP-44356) Fix ingeset-data.js output.

* (DOCSP-44346) Fix typo.

* (DOCSP-44356) @davidhou17 Review changes.

* (DOCSP-44356) Update import function name.

* (DOCSP-44346) Update getEmbeddings -> getEmbedding text introducing function.

* (DOCSP-44356) getEmbeddings() -> getEmbedding() in vector search query code.

* (DOCSP-44356) getEmbeddings() -> getEmbedding() in retrieve-documents.js

source/includes/avs-examples/create-embeddings/steps-avs-create-embeddings-new-node.rst, after:

.. procedure::
   :style: normal
      
   .. step:: Create a file named ``create-embeddings.js`` and paste the following code.
            
      Use the following code to generate embeddings from an existing
      collection in |service|.
      
      Specifically, this code uses the ``getEmbedding`` function 
      that you defined and the MongoDB :driver:`Node.js Driver </nodejs/>` 
      to generate embeddings from an array 
      of sample texts and ingest them into the ``sample_db.embeddings`` 
      collection in |service|.

      .. literalinclude:: /includes/avs-examples/tutorial/create-embeddings-new.js
         :language: javascript
         :copyable:
         :caption: create-embeddings.js

   .. step:: Save and run the file.

      .. tabs::
         :hidden:
         
         .. tab:: Open-Source
            :tabid: open-source
                  
            .. io-code-block:: 
               :copyable: true 

               .. input::

                  node --env-file=.env create-embeddings.js

               .. output:: 
                  :language: sh

                  Generating embeddings and inserting documents...
                  [ 0.031927742, -0.014192767, -0.021851597, 0.045498233, -0.0077904654, ... ]
                  [ -0.01664538, 0.013198251, 0.048684783, 0.014485021, -0.018121032, ... ]
                  [ 0.030449908, 0.046782598, 0.02126599, 0.025799986, -0.015830345, ... ]
                  Count of documents inserted: 3

         .. tab:: OpenAI
            :tabid: openai

            .. io-code-block:: 
               :copyable: true 

               .. input::

                  node --env-file=.env create-embeddings.js

               .. output:: 
                  :language: sh

                  Generating embeddings and inserting documents...
                  [ 0.031927742, -0.014192767, -0.021851597, 0.045498233, -0.0077904654, ... ]
                  [ -0.01664538, 0.013198251, 0.048684783, 0.014485021, -0.018121032, ... ]
                  [ 0.030449908, 0.046782598, 0.02126599, 0.025799986, -0.015830345, ... ]
                  Count of documents inserted: 3

      .. note::

         The number of dimensions in the output have been truncated for
         readability.
       
      You can also view your vector embeddings :ref:`in the {+atlas-ui+}
      <atlas-ui-view-collections>` by navigating to the ``sample_db.embeddings`` 
      collection in your {+cluster+}.
