source/includes/avs-examples/create-embeddings/steps-avs-create-embeddings-existing-node.rst, before:

.. procedure::
   :style: normal
      
   .. step:: Create a file named ``create-embeddings.js`` and paste the following code.
            
      Use the following code to generate embeddings from an existing
      collection in |service|. Specifically, this code does the following:

      - Connects to your |service| {+cluster+}.

      - Gets a subset of documents from the 
        ``sample_airbnb.listingsAndReviews`` collection that 
        have a non-empty ``summary`` field.

      - Generates embeddings from each document's ``summary`` field
        by using the ``getEmbedding`` function that you defined.

      - Updates each document with a new ``embedding`` field 
        that contains the embedding value by using the MongoDB 
        :driver:`Node.js Driver </nodejs/>`.

      .. literalinclude:: /includes/avs-examples/tutorial/create-embeddings-existing.js
         :language: javascript
         :copyable:
         :caption: create-embeddings.js

   .. step:: Save and run the file.

      .. io-code-block:: 
         :copyable: true 
         
         .. input:: 

            node --env-file=.env create-embeddings.js

         .. output:: 
            :language: sh

            Generating embeddings and updating documents...
            Count of documents updated: 50

      You can view your vector embeddings as they generate by 
      navigating to the ``sample_airbnb.listingsAndReviews`` collection 
      :ref:`in the {+atlas-ui+} <atlas-ui-view-collections>` and expanding 
      the fields in a document.

Commit message:

(DOCSP-46164): Update Create embeddings page binData sections (Python and Node.js) (#6920)
* DOCSP-46164 binData migration information and clarity around quantized index size

* DOCSP-46164 updates for DH's feedback

* DOCSP-46164 updates for DH's feedback

* DOCSP-46164 updates for HW's feedback

* DOCSP-46164 updates for DH's feedback

* DOCSP-46164 updates for HW's feedback

* fix python examples

* continue fixing python examples

* fix nodejs examples

* Henry's feedback

* decouple vector compression from quantization

* reorganize

* code fixes

* node.js code fixes

* HW feedback (clarify bindata sections)

* HW small comment

* environmental -> environment typo

* fix warning

---------

Co-authored-by: kanchana-mongodb <54281287+kanchana-mongodb@users.noreply.github.com>

source/includes/avs-examples/create-embeddings/steps-avs-create-embeddings-existing-node.rst, after:

.. procedure::
   :style: normal
      
   .. step:: Create a file named ``create-embeddings.js`` and paste the following code.
            
      Use the following code to generate embeddings from an existing
      collection in |service|. Specifically, this code does the following:

      - Connects to your |service| {+cluster+}.

      - Gets a subset of documents from the 
        ``sample_airbnb.listingsAndReviews`` collection that 
        have a non-empty ``summary`` field.

      - Generates embeddings from each document's ``summary`` field
        by using the ``getEmbedding`` function that you defined.

      - Updates each document with a new ``embedding`` field 
        that contains the embedding value by using the MongoDB 
        :driver:`Node.js Driver </nodejs/>`.

      If you defined the ``convertEmbeddingsToBSON`` function,  
      uncomment lines ``3`` and ``29``-``30``  to convert your 
      embeddings to |bson| ``binData`` vectors.

      .. literalinclude:: /includes/avs-examples/tutorial/create-embeddings-existing.js
         :language: javascript
         :copyable:
         :caption: create-embeddings.js

   .. step:: Save and run the file.

      .. io-code-block:: 
         :copyable: true 
         
         .. input:: 

            node --env-file=.env create-embeddings.js

         .. output:: 
            :language: sh

            Generating embeddings and updating documents...
            Count of documents updated: 50

      .. include:: /includes/fact-view-embeddings-atlas-ui-airbnb.rst
