source/includes/facts/activity-feed/org-filter-events.rst, before:

Filter by event
  Select the event categories or specific events you want to see from
  the activity feed. To exclude specific categories or events from the
  activity feed, click :guilabel:`Select all categories and events`,
  then deselect the categories and events you want to exclude.

  You can filter events based on the following categories:

  .. list-table::
      :header-rows: 1
      :widths: 20 40

      * - Category
        - Description

      * - Access
        - Events related to |service| users. The following filters are available:

          - A new API key has been created
          - A Role Mapping was created
          - A Role Mapping was deleted
          - A Role Mapping was updated
          - All organization users have MFA enabled
          - An API Key has been deleted
          - An organizational policy was cloned
          - An organizational policy was created
          - An organizational policy was deleted
          - An organizational policy was edited
          - API Key Access List Entry Added
          - API Key Access List Entry Deleted
          - API Key added to Group
          - API Key Description Changed
          - API Key removed from Group
          - API Key Roles Changed
          - API Key Whitelist Entry Added
          - API Key Whitelist Entry Deleted
          - Service Account has been created
          - Service Account has been deleted
          - Service Account Details have been changed
          - Service Account had its roles changed
          - Service Account added to Project
          - Service Account removed from Project
          - Service Account Access List Entry Added
          - Service Account Access List Entry Deleted
          - Service Account Secret Deleted
          - Service Account Secret Added
          - Service Account Client Secrets are about to expire
          - Service Account Client Secrets are no longer about to expire
          - Service Account Client Secrets have expired
          - Service Account secrets are no longer expired
          - Maximum allowed Service Account secret validity was changed
          - Service Account UI IP access list inheritance enabled
          - Service Account UI IP access list inheritance disabled
          - Domain was created
          - Domain was deleted
          - Domain was verified
          - Domains were associated with the Identity Provider
          - Failed purchasing Flex Consulting
          - Federation settings have been created
          - Federation settings have been deleted
          - Federation settings have been updated
          - Flex Consulting purchase made
          - Identity Provider was activated
          - Identity Provider was created
          - Identity Provider was deleted
          - Identity Provider was updated
          - MongoDB Support restricted from accessing Atlas backend infrastructure for all clusters in this organization
          - MongoDB Support unrestricted from accessing Atlas backend infrastructure for all clusters in this organization
          - Multi-factor Authentication Optional
          - Multi-factor Authentication Required
          - Organization Federation settings were deleted
          - Organization Federation settings were updated
          - Organization membership restriction was disabled
          - Organization membership restriction was enabled
          - Organization settings were configured
          - Organization's identity provider certificate is about to expire
          - Organization's identity provider certificate is current
          - Require IP Access List for Public API Enabled
          - Require IP Whitelist for Public API Enabled
          - Team added to project
          - Team created
          - Team deleted
          - Team name changed
          - Team removed from project
          - Team roles modified in project
          - Team updated
          - User had their role changed
          - User joined the organization
          - User joined the team
          - User left the organization
          - User left the team
          - User was invited to organization

      * - Alerts
        - Events related to alert configuration and monitoring. The following filters are available:

          - Alert acknowledged
          - Alert configuration added
          - Alert configuration changed
          - Alert configuration deleted
          - Alert configuration disabled
          - Alert configuration enabled
          - Alert unacknowledged
          - Organization users do not have MFA enabled

      * - Billing
        - Events related to payments and payment methods. The following filters are available:

          - A new organization has been linked to this paying organization
          - Account downgraded
          - Account modified
          - Account upgraded
          - Active Invoicing Period initiated
          - Active Invoicing Period stopped
          - Admin Override payment method added
          - AWS Usage Reported
          - Credit Amount Modified
          - Credit card charge has failed
          - Credit card information was updated
          - Credit card is about to expire
          - Credit card is current
          - Credit card was added
          - Credit card was successfully charged
          - Credit End Date Modified
          - Credit issued
          - Credit issued
          - Credit issued
          - Credit SFOLI modified
          - Credit Start Date pulled forward
          - Current bill for organization is over the limit you set
          - Current bill is below the limit you set
          - Discount applied
          - GCP Usage Reported
          - Invoice address added
          - Invoice address changed
          - Invoice closed
          - Invoice has been paid by check
          - Invoice has been paid by wire transfer
          - Organization has become a paying organization
          - Organization has been linked to a paying organization
          - Organization locked due to unpaid charges over 60 days
          - Organization suspended due to unpaid charges over 30 days
          - Organization sync with SFSC initiated
          - Payment forgiven
          - Payment was modified by private API endpoint
          - PayPal account is linked
          - PayPal account is updated
          - PayPal billing agreement has been cancelled
          - PayPal charge has failed
          - Prepaid plan added
          - Promo Credit issued
          - Refund issued
          - Support plan activated
          - Support plan cancellation scheduled
          - Support plan cancelled
          - Terminate all paid services for organization

      * - Organization
        - Events related to the organization. The following filters are available:

          - Amount billed yesterday is above the limit you set
          - Clusters deleted for projects in this organization
          - Clusters paused for projects in this organization
          - Current bill for any single project is above the limit you set
          - Daily amount billed is below the limit you set
          - IP Access List for Public API Not Required
          - IP Whitelist for Public API Not Required
          - Organization has been created
          - Organization has been granted temporary access
          - Organization has been reactivated
          - Organization has been renamed
          - Organization has been suspended by an administrator
          - Organization limit updated
          - Project charges ($) are below threshold
          - The SalesForce account ID was changed

      * - Others
        - Miscellaneous events, including log retrieval and
          :bic:`BI Connector </>` events. The following filters are available:

          - Atlas support plan updated
          - Database users imported to project from mLab deployment
          - IP whitelist imported to project from mLab deployment
          - Migration configuration from mLab initiated
          - Migration database renamed
          - Migration dump/restore started
          - Migration dump/restore test skipped
          - Migration dump/restore test started
          - Migration from mLab cancelled
          - Migration from mLab completed
          - Migration live import cancelled
          - Migration live import cutover complete
          - Migration live import error
          - Migration live import ready for cutover
          - Migration live import started
          - Migration prerequisites acknowledged
          - Migration target cluster created
          - Migration target cluster set
          - Migration target project set
          - mLab Migration: Opted out of support plan
          - Organization connected to mLab account
          - Organization disconnected from mLab account
          - Support email sent

      * - Projects
        - Events related to |service| projects. The following filters are available:

          - Project moved
          - Project was created
          - Project was deleted

Commit message:

(DOCSP-38083) Deprecate blacklist and whitelist terminology. (#6585)
* (DOCSP-38083) Deprecate blacklist and whitelist terminology.

* (DOCSP-38083) Renaming files.

* (DOCSP-38083) Reverting a change to reflect current state of code.

source/includes/facts/activity-feed/org-filter-events.rst, after:

Filter by event
  Select the event categories or specific events you want to see from
  the activity feed. To exclude specific categories or events from the
  activity feed, click :guilabel:`Select all categories and events`,
  then deselect the categories and events you want to exclude.

  You can filter events based on the following categories:

  .. list-table::
      :header-rows: 1
      :widths: 20 40

      * - Category
        - Description

      * - Access
        - Events related to |service| users. The following filters are available:

          - A new API key has been created
          - A Role Mapping was created
          - A Role Mapping was deleted
          - A Role Mapping was updated
          - All organization users have MFA enabled
          - An API Key has been deleted
          - An organizational policy was cloned
          - An organizational policy was created
          - An organizational policy was deleted
          - An organizational policy was edited
          - API Key Access List Entry Added
          - API Key Access List Entry Deleted
          - API Key added to Group
          - API Key Description Changed
          - API Key removed from Group
          - API Key Roles Changed
          - API Key Access List Entry Added
          - API Key Access List Entry Deleted
          - Service Account has been created
          - Service Account has been deleted
          - Service Account Details have been changed
          - Service Account had its roles changed
          - Service Account added to Project
          - Service Account removed from Project
          - Service Account Access List Entry Added
          - Service Account Access List Entry Deleted
          - Service Account Secret Deleted
          - Service Account Secret Added
          - Service Account Client Secrets are about to expire
          - Service Account Client Secrets are no longer about to expire
          - Service Account Client Secrets have expired
          - Service Account secrets are no longer expired
          - Maximum allowed Service Account secret validity was changed
          - Service Account UI IP access list inheritance enabled
          - Service Account UI IP access list inheritance disabled
          - Domain was created
          - Domain was deleted
          - Domain was verified
          - Domains were associated with the Identity Provider
          - Failed purchasing Flex Consulting
          - Federation settings have been created
          - Federation settings have been deleted
          - Federation settings have been updated
          - Flex Consulting purchase made
          - Identity Provider was activated
          - Identity Provider was created
          - Identity Provider was deleted
          - Identity Provider was updated
          - MongoDB Support restricted from accessing Atlas backend infrastructure for all clusters in this organization
          - MongoDB Support unrestricted from accessing Atlas backend infrastructure for all clusters in this organization
          - Multi-factor Authentication Optional
          - Multi-factor Authentication Required
          - Organization Federation settings were deleted
          - Organization Federation settings were updated
          - Organization membership restriction was disabled
          - Organization membership restriction was enabled
          - Organization settings were configured
          - Organization's identity provider certificate is about to expire
          - Organization's identity provider certificate is current
          - Require IP Access List for Public API Enabled
          - Require IP Access List for Public API Enabled
          - Team added to project
          - Team created
          - Team deleted
          - Team name changed
          - Team removed from project
          - Team roles modified in project
          - Team updated
          - User had their role changed
          - User joined the organization
          - User joined the team
          - User left the organization
          - User left the team
          - User was invited to organization

      * - Alerts
        - Events related to alert configuration and monitoring. The following filters are available:

          - Alert acknowledged
          - Alert configuration added
          - Alert configuration changed
          - Alert configuration deleted
          - Alert configuration disabled
          - Alert configuration enabled
          - Alert unacknowledged
          - Organization users do not have MFA enabled

      * - Billing
        - Events related to payments and payment methods. The following filters are available:

          - A new organization has been linked to this paying organization
          - Account downgraded
          - Account modified
          - Account upgraded
          - Active Invoicing Period initiated
          - Active Invoicing Period stopped
          - Admin Override payment method added
          - AWS Usage Reported
          - Credit Amount Modified
          - Credit card charge has failed
          - Credit card information was updated
          - Credit card is about to expire
          - Credit card is current
          - Credit card was added
          - Credit card was successfully charged
          - Credit End Date Modified
          - Credit issued
          - Credit issued
          - Credit issued
          - Credit SFOLI modified
          - Credit Start Date pulled forward
          - Current bill for organization is over the limit you set
          - Current bill is below the limit you set
          - Discount applied
          - GCP Usage Reported
          - Invoice address added
          - Invoice address changed
          - Invoice closed
          - Invoice has been paid by check
          - Invoice has been paid by wire transfer
          - Organization has become a paying organization
          - Organization has been linked to a paying organization
          - Organization locked due to unpaid charges over 60 days
          - Organization suspended due to unpaid charges over 30 days
          - Organization sync with SFSC initiated
          - Payment forgiven
          - Payment was modified by private API endpoint
          - PayPal account is linked
          - PayPal account is updated
          - PayPal billing agreement has been cancelled
          - PayPal charge has failed
          - Prepaid plan added
          - Promo Credit issued
          - Refund issued
          - Support plan activated
          - Support plan cancellation scheduled
          - Support plan cancelled
          - Terminate all paid services for organization

      * - Organization
        - Events related to the organization. The following filters are available:

          - Amount billed yesterday is above the limit you set
          - Clusters deleted for projects in this organization
          - Clusters paused for projects in this organization
          - Current bill for any single project is above the limit you set
          - Daily amount billed is below the limit you set
          - IP Access List for Public API Not Required
          - IP Access List for Public API Not Required
          - Organization has been created
          - Organization has been granted temporary access
          - Organization has been reactivated
          - Organization has been renamed
          - Organization has been suspended by an administrator
          - Organization limit updated
          - Project charges ($) are below threshold
          - The SalesForce account ID was changed

      * - Others
        - Miscellaneous events, including log retrieval and
          :bic:`BI Connector </>` events. The following filters are available:

          - Atlas support plan updated
          - Database users imported to project from mLab deployment
          - IP access list imported to project from mLab deployment
          - Migration configuration from mLab initiated
          - Migration database renamed
          - Migration dump/restore started
          - Migration dump/restore test skipped
          - Migration dump/restore test started
          - Migration from mLab cancelled
          - Migration from mLab completed
          - Migration live import cancelled
          - Migration live import cutover complete
          - Migration live import error
          - Migration live import ready for cutover
          - Migration live import started
          - Migration prerequisites acknowledged
          - Migration target cluster created
          - Migration target cluster set
          - Migration target project set
          - mLab Migration: Opted out of support plan
          - Organization connected to mLab account
          - Organization disconnected from mLab account
          - Support email sent

      * - Projects
        - Events related to |service| projects. The following filters are available:

          - Project moved
          - Project was created
          - Project was deleted
